###PAGE###1###
Texte détérioré
m
!
Shawville
Murphy still with Kings
Page 2
Phase III officially opened
Page 2

t
F; r
IP
I

photo spread F
Pages 6 & 7 k

4
110th Year, No. 36, Wednesday, September 8,1993
75(2
The Voice of the Pontiac since 1883
^0 ra
s
O
No strike at mill
1
Tribute opens Shawville Fair
i\A




r
by Merry Reardon a wage re-opener in three years.
The contract stipulates a zero per

I
Union workers at Stone Consolidated voted overwhelming- cent increase in the first year, a ly in favour of accepting the latest one per cent increase in the second contract offer put on the table by year, and a one and a half per cent management.
Cletus Ferrigan, president of Lo cal 420 of the Communication, En
P
%

by Merry Reardon presented his widow, Doro-
In an emotionally thy Schwartz, with a charged ceremony, the plaque.
138th annual Shawville Edgar and Dorothy's Fair was dedicated to the daughter, Kathy Nyveld, memory of the late Edgar spoke on behalf of the fami-Schwartz.
Special guest Dr Grant Rogers officially opened the three years of his life, her fair with the cutting of the father lived and breathed ribbon.
Barry Moore, MP, was also on hand to assist in the revolved around the fair,
she said.
Mrs Nyveld said it is very touching for the family to know that Mr Schwartz, and his memory, touched as
i


increase in the third year

1


Prior to the end of the third year, ergy and Paperworkers Union of discussions will be held about wage Canada, was happy to see the end of increases in the fourth and fifth
years of the contract.
The contract also makes provisions to improve the pension plan

*


iy
the negotiations
She said during the last

f
"We came up with the best possi
ble arrangement without walking and recognizes global problems the picket line," he said. "We've got peace up here for a long period du Fort mill have been working of time."	without a contract since April 30.
Two hundred and three of the 261	Negotiations have been on-going
members of the union turned out but the negotiating teams took a September 6 to vote on the latest break over August, deal. Almost 75 per cent voted in favour of accepting the offer.
Mr Ferrigan said this was an un- ber 2 and endured a 20-hour ses-usual set of negotiations where the sion the following day.
At 4 am September 4, all parties had made their final moves, and the union felt they had a proposal
"Were disappointed with the that could be taken back to the new approach of flexibility but we workers, realize it's absolutely necessary
Tom Gray, manager of Stone- that mightn't be the nicest but it rec-Consolidated, said the union ognizes the global economy and we agreed to a five-year contract with will survive," Mr Ferrigan said.
the Shawville Fair.
"The best times of his life
1
The union workers at the Portage
I -
opening
"The Shawville Fair provides an opportunity to pro mote agricultural aware ness, and also provides us many people as he did with the opportunity to sell goods and services to many visitors here on the weekend."
\ /
They got back to the table Septem
y
ci
A success
Organizers of the 138th annual Shawville Fair are Mr Moore commended all calling the event a success, of the volunteers for the Ron Hodgins, president of time and effort they all de- the Fair Board, said a new voted to make the fair a sue- attendance record was set
for Saturday bringing in He also congratulated the best crowd ever at the Ron Hodgins, president of Shawville Fair, the Fair Board, for the gra- But Mr Hodgins said it cious gesture of dedicating was hard to know how the fair to the memory of many people passed through Edgar Schwartz, a man Mr the gates over the course of Moore described as a friend the five-day event, to all and an unassuming Some visitors to the fair man who was always a per- held membership cards and feet gentleman
"Edgar always gave it his the total gate receipts. Fig-all," Mr Moore said, ures were not available as "Everything he undertook, to how many bracelets were he did it with all his heart sold, and soul
"I can only say that we show that was operated by will all miss Edgar, but his the fair board ran the way it memory will linger on," was supposed to.
Mr Moore said
Mr Hodgins said the Fair tracted a big crowd as did Board,- as well as the com- the demolition derby held munity, suffered a great Monday afternoon.
The midway was as popular as ever with children He described Mr Schwartz and adults alike. Mr Hod-_ as a community man who gins said it was the best photo Richerd wine was fiercely dedicated to midway ever at the Shaw-
everything he worked at. ville Fair.
The casino also proved to "And that was certainly be a popular attraction with the case here with the Shaw- visitors. The Fair Board
broke even in bringing it to


union accepted flexibility in ex change for job security for all em ployees.
\rd
A

We all negotiated an agreement
i
m
cess
Board not involved
in midway dispute

they would not be counted in
by Merry Reardon
The controversy surrounding the midway at this year s Shawville Fair was not the result of action taken by the Fair Board.
Police were called to the Shawville Fairgrounds August 31 and again September 5 to settle a dispute between two midway operators.
Constable Yvon Chausé, of the Campbell's Bay detachment of the QPF, reported that when the police arrived August 31, two midway operators were on the grounds arguing about who was supposed to be there.
Upon investigating, police determined that one operator had a contract with the Shawville Fair Board.
The second operator did not have a contract and was escorted off the grounds by police.
Ron Hodgins, president of the Fair Board, said the trouble with
the midway was between the two operators.
"Our contract had nothing to do with the other guys," he said. "It had nothing at all to do with the Board."
Constable Chausé confirmed that the Fair Board was not involved in the dispute.
He said it is a battle between the owners of the rides and has nothing to do with the Fair Board.
On September 5, the second operator arrived on the grounds with a court order to seize five rides.
The police were on hand to make sure the situation didn't get out of hand.
The rides in question will remain on the grounds until the issue has been dealt with by the courts. Const. Chausé said that could take a few days.
"It's a war in court, he said.

Mr Hodgins said every
The horse drawing at
loss with the death of Mr Schwartz.

a
Big winner at the Fair
Stuart Crabb of Stittsville removes the collar from Chief immediately after his ville Fair team took first place in the six-horse draft hitch competition on Saturday at Shawville In dedicating the fair to Shawville.
Fair. It takes a crew of eight to make it all happen, but these prize Belgians have won the memory of Mr Mr Hodgins expects the the same event six times out of eight in Toronto. (More on the 1993 Fair on pages 6 & 7) Schwartz, the Fair Board casino to return next year.
Tudor requests contempt charge

IPS*

Id

'5
by Richard Wills	but its	request	was	denied	on	July requested	by Ms Tudor,	"but he
A Quyon resident's attempt to ob-	30.	won't give	it to us."
tain information from her munici- On August 16, the Commission's Another document, a list of ques-pality moved into another stage on	ruling was made into a formal	tions and answers relating to the
August 31, when she filed a request	court order requiring the munici-	project, which was distributed by
to have the municipality of Ponti-	pality to produce the	documents.	council to	ratepayers at	a public
ac's lawyer charged with con-	meeting, is also not to be	found in
tempt.	No reply	the municipal files.
For two years, Mary Tudor has By August 31, Ms Tudor had still Mr Clairoux argues that the docu-been asking to see documents re- not received a response from the ments in question were not official lating to the municipality's attempt municipality, so she filed a request council documents, but merely to annex the Hilton Mine from for the contempt charge against working papers for the landfill Bristol and turn it into a giant municipal attorney Ronald Bélec. committee. The Access Commis-landfill.	Pontiac Municipal Secretary-	sion, Clairoux says, did not make
The documents in question in-	Treasurer Germain Clairoux says	the proper distinction between these
elude studies supporting claims that, of the six documents the Com- two classes of documents, about the viability of the landfill mission ordered his office to pro- Pontiac Mayor Eddie McCann project and the suitability of the duce, he has been able to obtain feels that the municipal committee sife.	only one. That one is the Quebec promoting the project should have
Ms Tudor argues that the munici- law respecting the handling of sol- kept copies of all documentation pality has refused to provide her id waste, a publication that is used to support its proposal, but he with access to these documents; the available to anyone through the insists that the office is not with-municipality says they simply Quebec government bookstore don't have them
Ms Tudor took her plight to the get a copy this way)," says Mrs Mr Clairoux says that his office Quebec Commission on Access to Clairoux, "but that’s the way she faces a fine of $100 to $500 for fail Information. On May 31, the Com- wants it."	ing to comply with the Access Com-
ph*>p*sc*Mr mission ruled that the municipali- Mr Clairoux says that the other mission ruling, but, he says. "I
ty must produce the documents for five documents were never deposit- cannot give what I don’t have public scrutiny. The judgment ed at the town hall, in spite of the
went so far as to say that, in its ref-	fact that they	were used	by the	mu-	Ms Tudor	says	that	she	was	told
A two-car collision occurred on Tuesday, August 31st at the intersection of Highway 148 and	the	Egan Road	usai to cooperate, the municipality	nicipality to	back up	its	claims	by	court	officials	that	this	is	the
near Quyon. Howard and Kay Quenney of Newcastle, Ontario were heading home after attending	a wedding	had exhibited behaviour that is be-	about the landfill proposal
in Shawville, when their Chevrolet Lumina collided with Leonard Dubroy's Pontiac Sunbird.	All	three were	yond understanding
taken by ambulance to the Pontiac Community Hospital. Mr Dubroy was later transferred to an Ottawa hospi
ARREf


i
?

»
k

t /
V
tkv
v


ILTr


/
1

Z7\





holding anything that is within its

It will cost her twice as much (to files


Two-car accident on Hwy 148 at Quyon
HHjfirst time in the province of Quebec Mr Clairoux said that Hilton that a municipality has failed to The municipality requested an Mine owner Maurice Lamarche comply with a judgment of the Ac-appeal of the Commission’s ruling, has a copy of one of the documents cess Commission.
tal

###PAGE###2###
Page 2, THE EQUITY, Wednesday, September 8,1993	m	m
Seniors’ apartments officially opened Casino maintains professional image
by Merry Reardon	the summer	working the casino was	fairly success-	ey
Gérald Martin said the	fair circuit.	ful.	v „ . Ha	8aid the ca8,n° couJd
casino was probably the The fair season runs Mr Martin said the Fair make money next year
tr«n ,t	ssMtisfiAs
Shawville Fair.	are over, special events it also wouldn t lose mon- years.
Mr Martin is the presi- kick in from October	:	~~1
dent and owner of Animat through April.
Incorporated, the firm that
operated the casino at the stay with the casino for exfair	tended periods of time, the kj
’People can come here majority stay with Ani- F" and be confident (that we mat for about four years. Md will be honest)," he said Mr Martin said work- m while sitting in the dimly ing at the casino can be a U . lit link building that good sideline for the stu- El housed the casino for its dents because they can I ÿ five-day run at the fair. make as much as $10,000	^
Animat got its start 15 for three months’ work, years ago operating casi- Dealers work 12 hour at about two dozen shifts while the casino is
open but they get 30 minNow it operates at 16 utes off after every hour fairs and six special worked, events that often last for It is crucial they get time weeks at a time.	off during their shifts be-
Boasting 400 employees, cause their concentration 300 blackjack tables, eight and mathematical skills wheels of fortune and 16 must be in top form, roulette tables, Animat is Mr Martin enjoys work- Ron Hodgins, president of the Fair Board gives the capable of operating more ing with youth because roulette wheel a spin as Gérald Martin, owner and
they are sensitive and full president of Animat Inc, and dealer, Richard Doucet Animat brought in 300 of heart and the learn very look on.
by Richard Wills
In Shawville, it is the volunteers who get things going and get things done, said Mayor Albert Armstrong.
"They are the backbone of the community."
Along with Mayor Armstrong, several persons who would be included in that group gathered at the "Phase III" building on Lake Street last Friday, for the official opening of the low-cost senior citizens apartments.
The 11-unit building opened for occupancy last fall, and, says apartment
Jack Smith

I
I II «I
r.
k


Although some dealers
In ft
/ r
?

<
?




r
i
I sr

x

nos
manager
proudly, it's still full."
There have been no turnovers of tennants, which attests to the suitability of the accommodations there.
Former EQUITY editor
Rosaleen Dickson was	-phet»nichant win»
MC for the official open- Presenting a government plaque at the official opening of Phase III, from left: ing ceremonies of the Helen Atkinson, MP Barry Moore, Athol Dale, Jack Smith, Dr Earle Potvin,
Phase III building on Sep- former Mayor Allan Black, and SHQ representative Michel-André Davignon, tomber 3rd. She was
joined by many of her fel-	Dr Potvin spoke modest-	Aside from the Shaw-	cit is expected to run about
low members of the board	|y 0f the committee's	ville contingent, the offi-	$84,000 annually. The	decks of cards, seven	well,
of directors of the original	achievements, which re-	ci al opening ceremonies	building cost $677,000 to	blackjack tables and	25 of	He	said	a	problem	with
Victoria Avenue Apart-	suited in a "beautifully	were attended by Pontiac-	build, and will be owned	its own employees to	oper-	some	young	people	today
ate the casino at the Shaw- is their inability to count
without the aid of a calcu-
fairs each summer

x
ü-

than one casino at a time
THE NEW LIFE YOU THIRST FOR!
ments.	designed building" to Gatineau-Labelle MP by SHQ
It seems like only day meet the needs of Shaw- Barry Moore, plus repre-	Rent charged will be set ville Fair
before yesterday," she re-	ville’s older residents.	sentatives from the Cana-	at 25 per cent of an occu-	At the same time, 45 em-	lator
called, when then Mayor	"We ll talk about Phase	da Mortgage and Housing	pant's gross income.	ployees were at a fair in	Counting, from	cards to
Allan Black suggested to	iy some other time," he	Corporation (CMHC) and	Mr Moore was pleased	Thetford Mines.	chips to money, is	vitally
her that the old Victoria	said, casting a warning	the Société d'habitation	du	with what he saw at the All of Animat's	employ-	important in the	casino
Avenue School should be	glance toward the govern-	Québec (SHQ).	apartments. "I met some	ees attend a 45-hour train-	business,
converted into an old	ment representatives	Barry Moore pointed out	of the residents here," he	ing course to learn about	Also important	is main-
folks	home.	present.	that,	under	the Canada-	said. "They're happy and	the games and the opera-	taining a professional
Busiest people in town Mayor	Armstrong Quebec Global Agreement secure."	tion of the casino.
Actually, it was 1984 that praised the people on the on Social Housing, the	Much of their happiness In the 15 years it has	_ .
Mrs Dickson chaired a	committee "who had the	federal government has	and security can be attrib-	been in business, 6,000	to strict appearance guide-
committee made up of "the	vision to think ahead". In	agreed to pay 59 percent of	uted to the work of apart-	dealers have been	lines that dictate the style
busiest people in town",	spite of the fact that it was	the operating deficit	of	ments manager Jack	trained.	of their hair, nails,	clothes
including Athol Dale, Dr	a local landmark, the old	Phase III for the next	25	Smith and custodian He- Employees, who	must	be	and shoes.
Earle	Potvin, Allan Victoria Avenue School, years. The	Quebec	gov-	len Atkinson, who were	at least 18 years old, are	All dealers sported tu: e-
Black, Dale Thomson,	might have been torn	emment will pay 31 per	praised by all the digni-	typically university stu-	do shirts, red bow ties and
Brent Horner, Royce	down had it not been con-	cent; the Town of Shaw-	taries present. Mrs Atkin-	dents working at a sum-	black pants or skirts.
Doug	verted to meet a great	ville will pay the remain-	son has now retired from	mer job.	Mr Martin said he
her position, and is being	Dealers are on the road	would gladly bring his ca-
The	total operating	defi-	replaced by Bob Findlay.	for three months during	sino operation back to the
Shawville Fair next year
but he would make a few
Canada s *1 selling Botanical Formulation. Potassium mineral supplement developed by eminent agrobiologist and biochemist.
I nehanged in over 70 years.
Kok MONK IM OKMM ION OH I Kl I- l.l l>H VII KhO»M MTH
Ism h Simm Dim Kim um Mvim Hohsk ai Imikxaiionai I III
Margie Barber
image.
Employees must adhere
647-3403 Residence
647-6307 Business
\

COUVREUR
KLUKE'S
ROOFING CO.^^fi
Richardson,
McLean and the late Rus- need sell Judd.
These people spent months of effort getting that first 13-unit apartment project off the ground.
In 1986, the committee	Chichester Council was	signed
completed Phase II, a new	held on Monday, August	The building inspector	announced
10-unit apartment build-	9th, at 8 pm, at the	is present and gives his	Moved by	Clrs M	held
ing on Lake Street, behind	Municipal Office in	report.	The municipal	Gagnon and Romain that}	instead of September 6th
the Victoria Avenue build-	Chapeau.	foreman	is present and	the bills in the amount of	,	because of Labour Day.
ing.	Present were His gives his report. The $19,540.13 be paid.
Now, seven years later,	Worship Mayor Earl	bridge was discussed. The	Moved by Clrs	Harkins	Moved	by	Clrs	Hearty	setup,
the seniors housing pro-	Lepine and Councillors	correspondence was read,	and Romain	to	inquire	and	Martin	that	the	But	for the first year in
ject has reached its next	Basil Hearty, Paul	about the possibility of	meeting be adjourned. Shawville, he thought the
stage with the completion	Martin, Donald Gagnon,	A grant from the	renting the brush cutter
of Phase III, next door to	Melvin Gagnon, Helen	Ministry	of Transport in	from Wilbert Carroll
Romain, and Betty
ing 10 per cent
Government subsidy
Serving the Pontiac, Ottawa and Hull areas
• 20 YEARS EXPERIENCE • FREE ESTIMATES . REASONABLE RATES • FULL WRITTEN WARRANTY
Contact Gerald Kluke 1-819-453-7871
$146,250 grant announced
Chichester Council changes
Even though blackjack
The regular meeting of meeting be adopted and the amount of $146,250 on a Moved by Clrs Harkins is always the favourite
three-year basis was and D Gagnon that the amongst casino patrons,
September meeting will be he would only bring four
September 8 tables instead of seven.
He would also favour a single roulette table over the double table that was
on
DOUG THOMPSON & SON
CUSTOM FARMWORK
MONUMENTS
GEO. ». FROATS 8 SONS LTD.
FORAGE OPERATIONS
•	HAY SWATHING • ROUND BALING
•	RAKING
TILLAGE OPERATIONS
•	PLOWING • DISCING • CULTIVATING
For more information please call:
DOUG THOMPSON, R.R. 4, Quyon, Que.
819-647-5448 or 647-2196
Phase II
"This building caps Harkins them all," noted Mrs Moved by Clrs Gagnon I Dickson at the ribbon- and Romain that the | cutting ceremony.
n
r
LUSKVILLE
EMERGENCY NUMBERS
minutes of the last regular | FIRE
455-2222 |
SEALMARK ROCK OF AGES Authorized Dealer for the Area
OPEN 6 DAYS A WEEK EVENINGS B Y APPOINTMENT
121 Argyle St. S. Renfrew, Ont. K7V1T4
Phone (613) 432-4224
Murphy back with the Kings
; or ;
w
Shawville native turns down chance to play in DHL
ANTIQUES & FARM
by Merry Reardon opportunity and he was School.	knowing I could have
Luke Murphy will be pleased with the way he And when he steps on the played with an OHL back on the ice with the	played.	ice at the PMC, he will	team," he said. "It's great
Pembroke Lumber Kings	"% was nervous	at	first	have the	added confidence	to know I can play with
this season.	but once I got into	the	knowing	that he has what	those guys."
After playing at the	game, I was ok."	it takes	to play in the	The Pembroke Lumber
Newmarket Royals train-	The competition	at	the	OHL.	Kings open their season
ing camp last week, Mur- Royals training camp "I'm very satisfied in Kanata September 16. phy, 17, was offered a posi
tion on the fourth line of than Murphy expected the Ontario Hockey League (OHL) team.
AUCTION SALE
11:00 a.m. sharp
Lise & Yves Retry
Quyon, Quebec
East on Murray Rd. off 148 (old Lyle Bronson Farm)
Contents of confectionery store, 1987 Suzuki Samurai 4x4 Jeep, 1982 Oldsmoblle sedan Delta 88, Antique sofa bed oak, Antique fold away pump organ, Jam cupboard, New leather boots (ladles), Tool box for full size half ton, Assortment of good electric carpenter tools, Horse cutter, several store racks and display stands and many miscellaneous Items for
Jasmine Levesque
on Saturday, September 11,1993 at 10 a.m.
at the corner of 301 and 105 at Kazabazua, Quebec
STEWARTS AUCTIONS
25 Main St., Cobden, Ontario Phone or fax 613-646-7649
was a bit more intense
He said there were a lot of very good veteran That position made the players, on the ice who had decision to come back for size on their side, another year in the Cen- MacIntyre thinks play-tral Junior Hockey ing in the camp was a pos-League (CJHL) easier for itive experience for Mur-the Shawville native.
Prior to leaving for
September 11,1993
Braeside
I*
Home Furnishings
Auctioneer's Comment: All items in this sale are in extremely good condition.
This is the only place you can set your price.
Tools end Equipment
Compressor 3/4 hp Campbell Hausfield (110 volt); Stihl gas powered grass tnmmer; Homelite 16" chain saw; Electric chain saw; Duro Piston pump; T Black & Decker skill saw, 5-1/2" Black & Decker skill saw; 2 small Fertilizer spreaders; Wet & Dry Shop Vac; Chicken feeder; Portable safe 12" x 12" (125 lb); Sump Pump; Roll of plastic for silage; 8 litres of Embntox herbicide; Bolt cabinet with 14 lbs of nuts & bolts; Selection of nuts * bolts; Several hand tools (Taps. dies, wrenches, rakes, shovels, etc.); Bale spear Miscellaneous
Tandy 1000 Computer with screen and keyboard; 2 Olympus 35 mm cameras; Set car mats; Golf bag support, Gas Bar B-O; Sony Radio Cassette; Vacuum cleaner trunk; 5 Weaved Bed spreads; 2 Quilted Bedspreads. 6 Flowerpots ; Kmckknacks; Christmas wreaths. 5 Carpets, Black 4 Decker Portable Vacuum; Set children's Cross Country Skis; Several children's toys; Smoke detector (new); Miscellaneous dishes; Bathroom accessories, 7 Wicker baskets
Antiques
Antique Maple table with 4 press back chairs; Antique woolen punch clock (International Business machine); 2 Oak barrels; Large selection of 33 vinyl records - 30 to 50 of each of the following categories : Jazz 4 Blues ; Classical ; Opera; Instrumental; Sound Tracks; Quebec French Disc; 2 • 10 ft. Pine benches; 4 ft. Pine bench; 2 Wooden tool boxes; Metal sink; Steel Coal Oil lamp; Fancy Glass Coal Oil lamp; 2 Wooden chairs; 2 Wrought iron round tables; 2 pairs of Snow Shoes; Several paintings 4 frames.
Furniture
Pine book shelf; Pine flower shelf; Oak 4 brass chandelier; 2 Living room lamps; 2 Lamp shades; Wicker rocking chair; Patio table with 6 chairs; 4 Drawer metal filing cabinet (legal); Chesterfield; Sofa (futon); Wooden Microwave stand; Wooden T V stand; Pine door Appliances
Whirlpool 17 cu. ft refrigerator; Kenmore 10 cu. ft deep freeze. Kenmore washer; Kenmore dryer; Moulinex meet grinder, Sunbeam portable muter; Proctor Silex iron.
BRAESIDE, ONTARIO 613-623-4859
"QUALITY FURNITURE AT AFFORDABLE PRICES"
phy
(Players) have to ven-camp, Murphy said he ture out to see what's up at would only stay in New- the higher levels, ” he market if he made the said. He (Murphy) has first or second line
Playing on the fourth side of the coin.' line would give him at most 10 minutes of ice Murphy reported the time each game.	Royals' coaches thought
Art MacIntyre, general *ie "aa a £°0(* camP an<*
of the Lumber were wry to see him
leave.
HOURS: Tues - Thurs. 9-5:30, Frt. 9-9, Sat. 9-5
FREE PARKING
seen what's on the other
FALL 1993
Cattleman's Stocker Sales
Saturday, September 18/93 at 11:00 a.m. Saturday, October 16/93 at 11:00 a.m.
GALETTA, ONTARIO
Pre-conslgned cattle delivered Friday eligible for trucking draw (maximum $200.00)
Hay and water provided until 7:00 a.m of Sale day.
All cattle vet Inspected.
All known buyers contacted prior to sale.
TRUCKING ASSISTANCE call Maurice Barr, 613-623-4467 or John Newman 1-800-265-7657
Vaccinations and preconditioning announced at Sale. Awards for TOP LOTS of cattle provided by Masterteed.
Cattle will be accepted Saturday morning Sept. 18 and Oct. 16 until 10 ajn.
CAMPBELL'S BAY CIMENT
manager Kings, said he would play first or second line if he returned to Pembroke.
MacIntyre is pleased Murphy will wear number 18 for the Kings again this
He plans to continue playing in the CJHL and take the scholarship route favoured by many of the league's players.
Murphy is looking forward to playing in Pembroke again this season.
I can't wait," he said.
It should be a g::i year."
He is also looking forward to seeing all of his friends again.
Murphy has moved to Murphy said playing in Pembroke and has started the OHL camp was a great Grade 13 at Fellowes High
I
•	Ready-Mix Concrete
•	Poured Concrete
Foundations
•	Concrete Blocks
•	Crushed Stone
•	Concrete Sand
i
tv1
a
season.
"We re ecstatic about him coming back," he said.
MacIntyre thinks Murphy made an excellent choice in deciding to return to Pembroke.
He said for the type of hockey player Murphy is, he will be able to achieve his final goal through the CJHL.
•	B.N.Q. Septic Tanks
•	B.N.Q. Plastic Pipe
and Fittings
•	Seepage Pits
•	Well Tile
•	B.N.Q. Holding Tanks
•	Curb Stops
o
o
o
Graham's Auction Services
R.R. #5. Renfrew, Ontario
Auctioneer: Murray Graham
Home: 613-4324597 Work: 613432-3661
Lunch Available
0
648-2144
COLLECT CALLS ACCEPTED
After hours (evenings) 683-3094
f

l
*»
w
4
m

mm «

*


• nil

WE LL PAY THE TAX


W
-

A

matol
r
###PAGE###3###
1
THE EQUITY, Wednesday, September 8,1993, Page 3
«
Sand Bay Green Lake selected for pavement
-TV
Replacing banker a hard order to fill
>
I
ft

c
I
by Merry Reardon
André Leclair has some pretty big shoes to fill.
He is taking over as the account manager of independent business at the Shawville branch of the Royal Bank. He knows he has a pretty big job ahead of him.
Mr Leclair has been in Shawville for about two weeks, and has been pouring over files and meeting with clients.
He explained that it is crucial for an independent business manager to know the files and the clients, the businesses and background of each.
Mr Leclair has been in the banking industry since 1980, when he graduated with a Bachelor of Commerce from the University of Ottawa.
He comes to Shawville from a three-year posting in Rouyn. He is glad to be back in the area where he

1
i
f
T
by Richard Wills Tembine on these gravel The Municipality of roads to keep the dust Clarendon will spend half down, and grading them a million dollars on road frequently, will be elimi-improvements this fall. nated once they are paved.
Most of this will go to- "It’ll pay for itself," he ward paving the Sand Bay predicts road and the Green Lake road (9th concession).
Council accepted a improvements is the Ryan $425,503.10 bid from De- Reform, introduced in schenes, the lowest of three 1991, which decrees that tenders, for these jobs, roads that had previously The balance of this fall's been maintained by the road improvements will Quebec Ministry of be done by the Municipali- Transport, will now be the
responsibility of the mu-
/¦



!
¦¦if
0

frV
L



" %


Ryan Reform
Part of the reason for the
/
¦s
I
I
Um
Driver escapes injury
a



ty

photo Merry Reardon
to the municipal dump

i





7> 4,
:

A

these roads into good re--------------------------—
But, with an estimated 80 pajr before they are taken cession, where the Green grew up.	I cottages on Green Lake, over.	Lake road meets the Pica
"I'm coming home," he	Mgkkjf	and about 150 at Sand Bay,	The government paid	noc	road
said with a grin. "I came	Mayor Gary Hedging said Clarendon $140,000 last This blind intersection
from the Ottawa region	_____________they made the choice that	year for this purpose, and	has	been	a	danger	to	mot-
and I'm glad to be back."	"we figured would benefit	js promising another	orists for	years.	Sometime
Mr Leclair is looking	Mike Haley	(standing) goes over	client files with	the most people."	$248,000, but council must	in 1994, the Ministry inforward to working in	André Leclair,	who will take over as	account manager Also, he says,	"We're	complete the work before	tends to even out the grade,
Shawville where he de-	of independent business at the Royal Bank in Shaw-	trying to concentrate on	they get their money.	widen the road, and add a
cribes clients as a close-	ville.	the roads that are	costing	"We're trying to make	third lane for turning,
knit family.	us the most." The expense	some very major im-
"Big cities are imper-	that he knows everybody	explained. "It's a develop-	. of spreading calcium or	provements," says the
sonal and it's business	and everybody knows	mental job and there are	mayor. After that, he says,
and only business," he	him," he said. "He's a	very few of those around	when they move.	"we don't know what's
said. Here you can have hard act to follow."	lately."	Although the move will down the line."
business dealings with Mr Haley worked at the He feels that he has help Mr Haley further his The Ministry of Transclients and they can be	Shawville branch of the	worked with enough dif-	career, he will miss work-	p0rt also intends to rebuild
your friends as well."	Royal Bank for six years	ferent types of business	ing, and living, in the	the intersection of High-
Although Mr Leclair	before he accepted a posi-	that he can move on to a	Pontiac
comes from a bilingual	tion as account manager	position that is a little	"There's almost no such
background, he has just	of independent business at	more challenging.	thing	as a cold call," he
left Rouyn, where 95 per	the LaSalle branch.	The biggest change	he	said.	"You always know
cent of the people speak	He will	leave	Shawville	anticipates	with	the new	someone through someth-
French.	sometime	before	October 4,	position	is	dealing	with	ing else."
He expects working in but in the meantime, he is traffic, which he loathes. Mr Haley likes the fa-Shawville, where many of	helping Mr Leclair famil- Mr Haley and his fami-	miliarity he had with peo-
the residents speak Eng-	iarize himself with the	ly will live in a town	of	pie in	Shawville. He said
files.	about 12,000 people about 30 he could walk down the
Once in LaSalle, Mr minutes away from the street and have conversa-
bank.	tions with five different
He sees this as a benefit people.
i?
6W

Q
CS/O
r
34/

C
YOUR CAR WITH US
/
AND
Telephone service with nurse 24 hours 7 days a week
BEAT THE RUST
$3995 to$5995
1-800-567-9625
way 303 and the 9th con
Prices includes applicable taxes
1 ÀTCOLLISION CENTRE 'V CENTRE DE COLLISION
Phone (819) 647-2937
PO. Box 357 26 Victoria Street Shawville, Que. JOX 2Y0
The Bristol Volunteer Fire Department Inc
fundraising	fI I / .
0 FIREMAN'S BALL# W
Saturday, September 11th, 1993 I I
fL
lish, to be a big change.
But what Mr Leclair ex
pects to be the biggest chal- Haley will have a portfo
lenge, is replacing Mike lio with more of an em ------------------ .	, e
j-ja 1 ey.	phasis on industry and because his three children He II miss that Tamil-
manufacturing.	won't have to go through iarity on LaSalle.
"It's a career move,' he too much culture shock "How do you replace
close friends?" he asked.
V
ROBERT C. TRUDEAU
Proprietor
Shawville R.A. Hall
• Refreshments • Music
Casual Dress $5.00 / person
Late Lunch Served 900 p.m.
Hard act to follow
The strength of Mike is
Corriveau running for MR on National Party ticket
r




by Richard Wills "Why restrict ourselves pronounced himself on Calumet Island farmer to one trading partner, es- other issues, both local Brian Corriveau would pecially the biggest debtor and universal, like to live in a clean, in the world?" he asks.
compassionate country. Instead, he would prefer I m against the Bristol That's why he has chosen to eliminate tradj bar- dump," he declares to run in the next federal riers within Canada be- say it and I'll stand by it. election under the banner fore taking on the world. "If (the cities of the re-of the National Party.	"We were thrown onto gion) can build huge sta-
Organized by Edmonton the playing field without diums and museums, they publisher Mel Hurtig, the any practice," he says. can look after their own National Party held its Mr Corriveau promises garbage," he reasons, founding meeting last that the National Party is Mr Corriveau has also November. Author Farley going to be the friend of come down firmly in op-Mowat is an active mem- small and medium-sized position to abortion. "I'm
The multi- not afraid to use the A'

&

<3
111


ber; Margaret Atwood and business
Dr David Suzuki have nationals are pulling the word also given the party their strings in this country," If anyone disagrees with qualified endorsement. he says. Meanwhile, he his conclusions, Mr Cor-
But Mr Corriveau says says, the big companies riveau challenges them to that the rank and file of lost 465,000 jobs through prove him wrong. At any the party will be made up free trade and the small rate, he says, for him, of ordinary people like companies are the only There's going to be no himself.	ones creating jobs.	sitting on the fence."
"My occupation is un- Against Bristol dump "I'm no politician," he important," he says. "The Mr Corriveau has also	(Continued on page 7)
party is looking for honesty and integrity. "
It took Mr Corriveau only a day to gather more than the 100 signatures required to get his name on the ballot. His candidacy was approved by the national executive and confirmed on August 26.
Gary Kelly of Allumettes Island is the party's association president for the riding of Pontiac-Gatineau-Labelle.
i
I
Chapeau Hotel
FRED'S
STEAK HOUSE
Scrap it
Mr Corriveau explains that the National Party was formed to offer a real alternative to the existing parties, which he feels have all become the same.
Last year, Hurtig’s organization spoke out against the Charlottetown accord.
Now, they set their sights on economic issues, such
as free trade. As for the current agreement with the United States, Mr Corriveau feels Canada should "scrap it."
We are sorry for the inconvenience but the hotel will be closed due to the celebration
for Fred, Sat., Sept. 11 and Sun., Sept. 12/93.
FORD
AT YOUR QUEBEC FORD AMD MERCURY DEALERS
MERCURY
LINCOLN
MORE AND MORE FOR YOU!
On approved credit, the financing rate is of 3 9% for a maximum of 48 months Example for a $10,000 loan at an annual rate of 3 9%. monthly payments are $225 34. cost of loan is $816 32 and total amount to reimburse is $10 816 32 See your dealer to get all the details Offer valid for new 1993 Tempo and Topaz at selected participating dealers
J



###PAGE###4###
Page 4, THE EQUITY, Wednesday, September 8,1993
Letters
Ottawa Valley mythology crops up in California
Editorial
Let's get on with it

Canada is on the eve of another	have matured to the point where
federal election campaign. Calling	they realize that, rather than
an election now would save the	relying on paternalistic politicians,
country million of dollars, because	they must believe in their own
Elections Canada could recycle the	abilities,
voters lists left over from the
referendum on the Charlottetown The imminent election appears to accord. That way, at least	be shaping up as the campaign of
something could be salvaged from	the spoilers. Even in Pontiac, small
that costly exercise in universal	party efforts crop up to broaden the
debate. Nationally, the successes of the NDP, Reform Party, and Bloc Beyond that, there is a bigger Québécois threaten the stranglehold reason why it would be better for the on power too long held by the government to get on with it - the leading parties, country can ill afford to string this out any longer. Just as in the recent American election, the analysis

Dear Editor:
During a trip to southern California in early May, to visit my daughter and her husband (whose permanent home is at Fawaskin, Big Bear Lake), we decided to go out for dinner.
They suggested "The Blue Ox" restaurant at Big Bear City, on the other side of the lake.
I was intrigued by the name of the restaurant, but was more intrigued than ever on opening the menu, to see "From Big Joe Muffrau's Broiler".
As far as I know, that character was associated with the history and mythology of the Ottawa Valley, so it seemed curious to see reference to it in southern California. Our waitress, being a local lady had no idea as to who selected the name, but from observation during a number of visits, there are a large number of expatriate Canadians in California. Perhaps Joan Finnegan will also be interested in this.
#
suffrage.
This could be interpreted as a fragmentation, a splintering of the here points to an overwhelming concept of government as a unified cynicism among voters, an unwillingness to believe that any political leader can actually save the country from itself.

front. Or, it could be the death of government	as	a	moribund
monolith.	It	could	be	a	healthy
redistribution of power, a trend resulting in a government that This could be a grim and sober must establish working coalitions to conclusion,	or	it	could	be	one	of	meet the	specific	needs	of the
hope.	When	nearly	half	of	regions.
Canadians are worried about their future employment, fear is the real enemy. Job insecurity has become a national affliction that feeds on itself, poisoning the mentality of the workplace and, indirectly, of the
>
Yours sincerely Colin Finlayson
Ottawa
Notes from Lalaland

31 August 1993
*Aà
Dear Editor:
The Parti Québécois has announced support for the dump at the former Hilton Mine. The Little Green People are very upset. Considering the abysmal way the Liberal party has governed, the PQ has some chance of forming the next government. This new alliance is a cynically astute move on the part of Maurice Lamarche. Having been turned down flat by Bristol Township, Lamarche intends to take it over our heads. Any Quebec government, especially a PQ-led one, doesn't care a bit what the people of Bristol, Clarendon, Onslow, Quyon, et al, think about its policies. No votes lost there, eh?
Money talks. Or rather, money shouts. So the best way to end this unpleasantness once and for all, is to buy whoever has dollar signs in their eyes and nothing better to do with their time than agitate for the end of life on an inhabitable Earth. Buy them off, and send them on permanent vacation to Florida, where the environment was sold out and ruined years ago. Blessed are the rich for they own the world.
See, these guys think that they're gonna get paid off in the end, with big bucks. The people who live near the mine site, who appreciate the relatively benign state of the neighbourhood, who would like to leave some clean water and air to their children, don't get paid to fight against this menace; they have to use their imagination, their energies, their money, and their spare time to try to see to it that their world is not pulled out from under them by those who obviously don't care about the long term good of the people and the land, water, and air which make up their world.
Have you travelled to the States lately? They're way ahead of us - in the race to oblivion! it's hard for me to find a drink of water that I'm not afraid of. The air stinks. One can go swimming in sewage or chemicals, but not in water. The American scenario is available to us: in fact it will take the concerted efforts of every conceivable ally, be it Little Green People, superficial yuppie environmentalists, hard-eyed politicos, even radical enviro guerillas, to keep the degradation at bay. And it's a battle that's never won, but postponed at best; if and when the Hilton Mine-as-dump idea is thoroughly quashed, there's James Bay II, and destructive logging from here to Clayaquot Sound to the equatorial rainforests.
Haven’t we learned anything from the east coast fisheries? When the cod are all gone, there are no more jobs in the fisheries! You cut down all the trees, there's no more sawmill! You pollute the air and water, nobody wants your farm products, no one wants to come for a visit, no one wants to move here to start a family. Who wants to drive or boat past a megadump to visit the site of a former waterfall?
There's plenty of room for everyone to choose their own mode and depth of involvement here. The larger household you save may be your own!
Elections have not become obsolete, but perhaps electioneering has. Established political parties have become so cynically similar that it is futile to pin one's hopes on any entire society. As a people, though particular leader or platform. The we are cash poor, we continue to enjoy a lifestyle that is relatively prosperous. Even so, our outlook is poisoned by fear.
$

II
i
life expectancy of these political animals has become dizzyingly short, with parties and leaders falling out of favour as soon as they are elected. Perhaps voters are Most Canadians have their hands beginning to realize that they have full building a life that they have been looking at this the created for themselves. They have no more time for hollow promises, for style over substance, for the same old wine in a brand new bottle.
They pin no great hopes on the outcome of the next election. They




wrong way up, that any real power to make change lies at the grass roots, and that, rather than bestow unlimited power upon the political saviour of the month, they would be better off to empower themselves.









".

îri
BP

Richard Wills
m v

‘*rtm

Environment Forum
by Katharine Fletcher
The stink of garbage
A study in tranquility
Item: The choking smell of wet, burned garbage is drifting through my home. It woke me up in the early hours and, at first, I thought something must be smoldering in my house. Then I recognized the sour smell of garbage I have come to know all too well.
Have you ever smelled burned gar-
lives. So far, the incinerator has not been built: it is under consideration as
Now that summer's over and the cottages all closed up for the season, the lakes in an option by the Communauté urbaine Pontiac return to their natural, tranquil state, de VOutaouais.
t/* h» ^ast weefkththH*itoPer splashed Letters to the Editor
project across the front page. It was the headline story, featuring a photo of Parti bage? Try visiting one of the many mu- Quebeçois Environment Critic Pauline nicipal dumps here in the Pontiac. It is a Marois and Hilton Mine owner Mau-heavy smell — a foul stink. Depending rice Lamarche. In these pre-election upon natural circumstances such as days, the PQ are aligning themselves Dear Editor: wind direction, or temperature inversions that create swirls of fog such as this morning, the smell can either affect us here on the Steele Line or can miss us completely. The pervasiveness of the yard, odour is complete: the inside of my home
is full of it just now, and nothing I can people of Gatineau-Hull. It is a solution do will get rid of it — until the fog lifts that is not so palatable to the citizens of and the wind direction alters.	Bristol who must live with the conse-
Item: Several months ago, after cross- qutnces of a long-term landfill. Nor is ing the Ottawa River on the Quyon ferry it a positive solution for those who live Ste-Foy, Québec and heading north on the Wolf Lake beside the Highway 148, who anticipate Road, Eric and I were witness to a con- truckloads of garbage hurtling past Bagration. The sky was lit up, reflect- their homes.
ing the red of the flames. With increas- Item: Phone calls I have received over ing alarm, we drove past the North On- the last four years on the issue of gar-slow dump. Through the thin veil of pine bage indicate a wide split in the “will of and mixed woods that screen the pits the people”. (Typically, I might add from passers-by, the flames licked and callers do not want to identify them-shot skywards. The trees looked as if selves which is an interesting twist they were part of a macabre dance.	the garbage issue.)
We hurried home and called the Some of you want the Hilton Mine Quyon fire department Minutes later, dump, as long as part of the package is a we heard the rush of their vehicles as sortation unit and recycling plant they headed out to control the blaze.	Some callers want to throw garbage into
item: A young friend was over a few the pit because you think it is as safe a months ago. While helping out in the site as can be found anywhere, kitchen, she asked me where I kept my Others don't want any part of garbage garbage for tins. Underneath the sink, I Why not truck it all to Val des Monts, told her. As she lifted the lid of the gar- some asked? Let those good people deal bage pail, she turned to look at me with with the problem. Who cares if their ag-surprise. In a very clear voice, she ricultural land has to be dug up to make asked me why we don’t separate our gar- way for garbage? That's okay as long bage. Why, she wondered, did our gar- as Bristol folks don't have to contend bage bag contain paper, plastic and tin? with it. Still others say city folk must I explained to her that sometimes I do look after their own garbage, as we do sort my garbage, but that at other times, here in the Pontiac, time and inconvenience” get in the But do all Pontiacers look after their way. I told her that here in the Munici- own garbage? I have just admitted to pality of the Pontiac, we have no recy- you that I get discouraged and do not aiding program. In this large municipal- ways sort my own household waste ity of mine, I explained, there is no-	Are you like me?
where to take my sorted garbage for re-	Question: What about business and
cycling. Sometimes, I told her, I do sep- industry here in the Pontiac? What arate the garbage. I wait for a long time about the hospital? Do we look after our for it to accumulate and then I take it to a own Pontiac medical waste? Or, do ... neighbouring municipality which does truck it out for someone else to dispose have a recycling program.	of? What about our tires? What about the
She couldn't understand why my mu- toxic household waste we all have hang-nicipality would not have a program ing around our homes: old refrigera-such as hers does in Thorne. With the tors, cars, batteries and paint? Do we generosity of youth, my friend told me to really look after all of our own waste and to please bring my sorted here in the Pontiac? garbage to their recycling depot.	Comment: I do not have any answers,
itom • TKo	j «, ,, but 1 have lots of Questions. I don't want
don’t want an incinerator to be* built In But? doS^thJ^Înt îtotos tfour
mmmmsm
lungs, their garden soil, and into their
Help improve Télébec service
3 September 1993
with Lamarche to support his landfill We are writing to invite all your readers, both within and outside the Télébec sys-venture and to offer a palatable alterna- tern to:
tive to their voters in Gatineau-Hull who a) sign a petition to improve the local Télébec system;
do not want an incinerator in their back	b) write a letter themselves requiring the improvement of Télébec's service;
c) talk to their federal and provincial MPs and nominees of other parties about The solution may be palatable to the what they will do to change the Télébec system.
Letters should be sent to:
M. Paquette '
Régie des Télécommunications du Québec 3175 Chemin de Quatre-Bourgeois
G1W 2K7 and to:
The Secretary-General
Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission Ottawa, Ontario K1A0N2
The petition requires the following minimum improvements:
1.	Local dialing to Ottawa and the Outaouais;
2.	The availability to private phone lines;
3.	Rates the same as rural communities in the Bell Telephone System.	The sins of the father.... In last week s The Way We
Copies of the petition are posted in the IGA grocery shop in Shawville, and at The Were column, a birth notice appeared in the 75 Years
Equity.	Ago section that was incorrect. The blessed event
We urge everyone to add their own points of frustration to the letter. For example,	accredited to a Mr and Mrs Lawrence Hodgins. As
a committee member's son was trying to call her last Sunday from Vancouver, and can be seen in this week's column, the correct name of got the message: Toutes les lignes sont occupées, veuiller essayer plus tard. Can the parents was Mr and Mrs Clarence Hodgins. The you believe it?	error was corrected in THE EQUITY 75 years ago, and
now we correct it again.
Robert Wills Clarendon
Correction
on
was
Eleanor Heise Bristol, Quebec |—
-|
CAMPBELL'S BAY
EMERGENCY NUMBERS
I
*5C
f
FIRE
...819-648-2400
1-800-567-1280
...819-647-2211
...819-648-2141
I
¦


QUEBEC AMBULANCE
HOSPITAL.........
POLICE...........



I


mam
I
ESP

¦¦i
L

J
a

THE EQUITY
647-2204 Fax 647-2206 The Voice of the Pontiac since 1883
Publishers Ross Dickson
Heather Dickson Editor Richard Wills Display Ad Manager Brent Horner Display Ad Sales Katherine Hynes Class. Ad/Circulation Claire Lunam
Journalist Merry Reardon
À

!

I r

we
%

ADVERTISING DEADLINE MONDAY 5 PM Published weekly by the Pontiac Phntshop Ltd. 133 Centre Street Shawville, Que. JOX 2Y0 Subscription rates:
(GST Included)
r5
sort
V

Pontiac County $27.82 Quebec $38.95 Cenede $37.45 Outelde Cenede $53.50

Shawville beautification winners
Publications mall Reg. No. 0649, Shawville Contents copyright 1993 Legal deport In •» National Library Ol Quebec Member of the CCNA, ABC, QCNA, and Restau Select
Shawville councillor Sylvia Poisson Hodgins (left) presents a certificate to Marjorie Hodgins. Lloyd and Marjorie's home was one of three winners of the 1993 Shawville beautification contest.
Last question: What is the answer?

,
i
t
###PAGE###5###
THE EQUITY, Wednesday, September 8,1993, Page 5
Shawville News. Owing Fair.	-	Masons. Remember the Campbell's Bay have dis-
to the difficulty of keeping Killed in Action. Mr Jo- 100 Y0&rS AlJO grand Masonic demon- sented from the School a boy "on the job" to deliv- seph E Dolan of Portage du —:	: ——----1 stration here on Wednes- Corporation of Litchfield,
er THE EQUITY to town sub- Fort received intelligence September 7, 1893	day next - Sept 13. A good and purpose erecting a
scribers, we have decided	through the Canadian	Shawville News. Mr	day's sport will be missed	brick building, for which	Hayes t uneraj Home,
to discontinue the custom,	Record office on Thurs-	Wm Fades of Radford is	if you don't attend. A big	Mr D Kennedy has the	^hawville on Saturday,
and, henceforward will	day last, that his son	the first to finish harvest-	crowd is expected to come	contract, for school and	dulyWlth. An^us
leave the papers at the post	Crawford had been killed	ing in this section. Wm is	up by the special train	religious purposes.	MacDonald conducting
office, anyway, so that no	in action in the recent	never behind in his work,	from Ottawa. Prof Dumas	Impossible. It is said	f service. Surviving
particular interests are	heavy fighting in which	A number of ladies un-	will perform several very	three of our business men	l?mi y members are
likely to suffer.	the Canadian army has	der the protecting care of	difficult contortionist	are somewhat .n	fanion (Jenny) Chnst.
It is stated that there was	been engaged. Crawford	our vet, and watchmaker,	feats at the concert which	.lined to horse fancying	Hughes, Quyon, Robert
England.	between 45 and 50 automo- had been at the front a visited the Calumet slides is to take place at the close d i_0 jove darkness DVa 1 Hughes, Quyon,
Th.	%%%,%%& «ïïïïïi&’îîk:	t s
EÊFHE S SEH	SHE2E sh=3*£ s&.jk
place in Shawville Friday turned because he was It is expected notices will a son. Both well.	The Academy re-opened Anna, only daughter of	!"o twn
night at the office of the	over aBe for active ser-	be issued in a day or two	Error - in birth-notice	here on Monday last.	Mr	A R Macdonald of that vounng
County of Pontiac Agrono-	vice. He is a veteran of the	proclaiming Wednesday	published last week, the	Miss Dunkerly, princi-	place,
mist, Doug MacMillan.	Great War» 1914-18, and	next, Sept 11, a Civic holi-	name Lawrence L should	pal; ' Miss Armstrong,
Tobacco farmers Don	was a Prisoner of war for	day, to enable Shawville	have read: Clarence L	Model; and Miss Whelan,
New Glenn Atkins and several months before es- citizens to attend Ottawa Hodgins.	elementary.
Marshall Faulkner re- raping to Holland, where ceived cheques totalling was interned for a year
$16,320, to cover losses 0ronl®re,1 _	,	,
from a hailstorm on July Sch°ols Ope™. H'gh and 5	Public Schools of this dis-
Service Awards. On trict opened on Wednes-June 4, the Pontiac Teach- day, September 1st, with a
ers' local Association ar-	vc*0-? ^?a?^er8:
ranged a banquet at Val-	School the princi-
ley Motel, Renfrew, to Pal is John Tolhurst and honor Mrs Violet Poole the teachers are: Gordon E and Mrs Marion Hayes, Samson, Miss Edith who retired from teach- Barss, E K St Jean, Miss
Clara Strutt, Mrs E McE-
Market. - wan, Miss Gwen Shaw,
(Editorial) It always sur- Miss Margaret Judd, Miss prises newcomers to this Sadie Tubman, Miss Au-area that to get the best drey Fulford, Miss Amy fresh fruit and vegetables Corrigan, and Mrs Athol in season they have to go to Dale, the farmers' market in In Clarendon Township,
Ottawa or Pembroke. If a the teachers are: Miss special place were set Jean Judd, Miss Mary aside for this sort of enterprise by the municipality Mrs Myrtle Howie, Miss of Shawville, it just might Mona Tracy, Miss Muriel be used by local garden- Murphy, Miss Beulah ers.	Findlay, Miss Laura
Woodley, Miss Orla Mee,
Miss Leona Horner, Miss Elleda Beattie, Miss Iva Horner, Miss Hazel Lang, and Miss Orma Smiley.
OMtwry
Viola McLean
The Way We Were
The funeral service for Viola McLean was held at
ii
in
t
a
The

Equity
compiled by
Richard Wills . - —
¦v !
4

7

V ^
I
25 Years Ago
Borden, and a son Sidney. Pallbearers were Denis forty gait out of 6-minute Lecompte, Denio Frois, horses. Desist, gentle- David McTiernan, Keith men, do; the thing is a Brown, Archie Belland physical impossibility.
Dissentient School. The Roman Catholics of
and Kenneth Tubman.
ing.
Farmers'
7
Jay, Mrs Lennis Dean,
50 Years Ago
September 9, 1943 Married. On September 1st at St Matthews Anglican Church, Charteris,
Roberta Eileen, youngest 75 YearS AgO daughter of Mr and Mrs	ü
Gordon R Smith of Maryland, became the bride of Erwin Everett, son of Mr Leger of Campbell's Bay, and Mrs Everett Laugh- and Mr P Marchand, elec-ren of Charteris.	trician of Ottawa, were in
Killed in Action. Mr town a few days ago, seek-and Mrs James A Pitt of ing to interest some of our Bryson have received a citizens in the develop-telegram confirming in- ment of water power for formation of the wound- electrical purposes, which ing and death in Sicily of they claim could be uti-their elder son, Pte Lloyd lized satisfactorily by the Pitt. Lloyd was born in villages of Coulonge, Bryson on July 15,1920.
Word has been received Shawville. This power is by Mr and Mrs Joseph about twenty miles from Little of Austin section of here and his located at the Clarendon township that foot of Long Lake on Ber-their son, Trooper Ken- nard Creek, where there is neth Little, had been a magnificent head and wounded in action at some an abundant water sup-unspecified place outside ply.
September 5, 1918
Electrical Power. Mr R
Campbell’s Bay and
LOEB’s locked- in tow prices are great values But seeing them day in and day out can get a little boring So here’s something else the prices are guaranteed for four
weeks on hundreds of items. \\ hich means you get value by the art load instead of just on a
weekly special Prices may get boring Your savings w ill always be exciting
pavillon du parc inc.
Territoire Pontiac, C.P. 209, Fort'-Coulonge, Québec JOX 1 VO
Téléphone: 683-3034 Télécopieur: 683-3220
2)
#
BESOIN URGENT
#
#
#
e
Dans les environs de Shawville, Bryson, Campbell's Bay Dans le cadre de ses ressources de type familial, le Pavillon du Parc, centre de réadaptation, est à la recherche de personne(s) désirant recevoir chez-elle une adolescente de 14 ans anglophone présentant un handicap physique et qui doit se véhiculer en fauteuil roulant.
En plus d'offrir un milieu de vie chaleureux, la famille ou la personne retenue devra poursuivre les apprentissages identifiés au plan de services ou d'interventions du Pavillon du Parc. Pour ce faire, cette famille recevra les équipements nécessaires et le support à domicile des intervenants du Pavillon du Parc.
La compensation financière est selon les normes approuvées par le Ministère de la Santé et des Services sociaux.
Toutes personnes désirant de plus amples informations sont priées de communiquer:
Gold Seal Fluked Light Tuna
Pi

à
#
# #
Rougemont Pure Apple Ju«c«
I	1.36 L tin
err:
•.t
Pavillon du Parc inc., Francine St-Jean, coordonnatrice des services de réadaptation, 683-3034
L
pavillon du parc inc.
Pontiac Territory, Box 209, Fort-Coulonge, Quebec J0X1V0
Telephone: 683-3034 Fax: 683-3220
2)


A
• #
ithby> Commd Postal Avsorte4Voriet<e5, 398 ml
URGENTLY NEEDED
tZs
M
Shawville, Bryson, Campbell's Bay areas
Pavillon du Parc, a rehabilitation centre, is searching for person(s) willing to accommodate one 14 year-old young lady who has a physical handicap and requires a wheelchair.
The family or person(s) accepted will offer a warm and caring home, and pursue the objectives identified in the service plans or intervention plans of Pavillon du Parc. They will also be provided with equipment needed and benefit from home support services offered by the staff of Pavillon du Parc
Financial compensation is set according to the norms approved by the Ministry of Health and Social Services.
If you are interested and would like more information, please contact:
Prices effective until Sunday, October 24, 1993.
«t A




Pavillon du Parc Inc.,
Francine St-Jean,
coordinator of rehabilitation services, 683-3034.
\
V
t
\
###PAGE###6###
Page 6, THE EQUITY, Wednesday, September 8,1993
yjville p,
#
e'fs)

?

3

1 >
=t
i
V
1



L

i


X
*

>
i
« #
/
1
O
f


of


TJ


4#
W '
i
A




*4» * -
V

V



»
X *
1
Sfc * X


¦
H





J
?
t






\
y

i
t
%




.. >
u*

7

*
F
/
ht
»



Tammy Plouflfe of Calumet Island took top honours in the Express Yourself 93 talent show. From left: Lucy Brownlee, show organizer, Tammy Plouffe, Doris Watson, show organizer and John Mielke, master of ceremonies and disc jockey
at KOOL FM.


/
I
i
Xt
'	% X
* M, >¦ S ?' .


Senior Showmanship winner Jo-Anne Brownlee, left and competitor Nancy Pirie from the 4-H Club.

'

V.
\
'¦

¥{

*
k
!
s
i '!
Photos by Dave Moore, Merry Reardon, Pat Schoulnr and Richard Wills

I
M

a -
1

V /
6
«6

P
}
A
Z
xï

The Space Shuttle was a popular ride
ï
T



é
m

£
iu

lut#
•H

¥.
1



/

3t
%
%
•f
V it
S

S

' /

F
- -
-,
\
»
P% -
' ' - 34,
%

eT
'*«*1 4 • * *
V
\ «

?



*
1
¦e
*
>
V
¦V

•v^

A

San»

j


-¦*
¦"SB
Il I


-•


If?
M


- >
w
\
t-

w; y
"
Billy Kidd gets a different view of the audience while singing on top of a trants in the Peewee dairy calf show at the Shawville
cube van parked beside the Fair bleachers at the Shawville Fair.

Sheena McEwen from Kemptville feeds a pony
Gloria Tubman handing out ribbons in the Ladies two-horse draft show
Little Breeana Corrigan was one of many young en

SI

i
•c
k

y
>
I

4r -lOf 1 #>
•%
M!
it

i

\

1
t^L
«
INfc*

JSM
/
«

%

\

i

b
4P

I I
1
a
w
)
X
p
A
\

4 t
z

V




A

-Ai*

¦si V
V
v

>
-


.’Xi
\
>


Wanda and Dave Burnside of Bumlee Chippendale The Leahy Family of Lakefield, Ontario performed for a packed crowd Sunday Farms of Madoc, Ontario prepare their Maine Anjou
calf for the show.
y*
m i rm
evening at the fair
* ' 4k
)

/
%


7
V



/<* f' "tr* ' *
i
«ft
i
4
*

/a
X
Clear the track for Jona-Adrienne Taylor and her pet Major dressed alike to than Koster (left, 2) and enter the Shawville Fair's Dog Show on Saturday
f
Tyler Bennett (4)!
r



V

s

• I
y
w
*

/
>


sa>r




*


A

Queen and Billy pull 6,500 pounds in the light horse pull at the fair Sunday after-4-H show judge Brian Rivington of Carp, Ontario talks to the competitors during noon. The team is owned by Gilles Proulx, who got some assistance from Daniel
Proulx during the event.
Calvin Fleury, 9, of Chapeau, tries his luck at the Whac-a-Mole game at the midway.
the show
f
V
/
/

###PAGE###7###

THE EQUITY, Wednesday, September 8, 1993, Page 7
Banker's Nightmare now top truck by six points
by Gloria F Tubman for his first win of the Thursday evening s season. Keith Sloan from held off long enough Mansfield drove ' Just-A-
Hummin " 180 ft 4 1/2 in

y
i
rain
for	"Banker's
Nightmare" to grab first for second place. Third place (by six points) in place went to Gary truck pull standings with Tubman from Shawville a fourth place finish in the in the "Rat-E-Cal-Rat". 5800-lb modified class at There must have been the Shawville Fair. The something in the cherry combination of Tom Orr pie that Patsy Burke and Rick Cummings Holmes gave Keith Sloan from Shawville have at Poltimore. Keith had found the key to his best pull Thursday harnessing that Dodge evening at the Fair. Patsy power.	baked the pie to show Keith
Patsy Burke Holmes that she is successful in from Cantley is in second the kitchen as well as on place with her GMC the track. Someone (Keith "Double the Trouble", or Patsy) is going to be Two points behind in third busy in the kitchen. The place is Gary Tubman loser now has to bake a pie Auctioneer Revel Stewart (left) Ron Hodgins (center) and the grand champion from Shawville with his for the one who pulls the bull led by Matt McDougall that sold for $2.35 per pound to M&R Livestock from El- Ford Rat-E-Cal-Rat”.	greater distance.
mira, Ontario. The steer weighed 1035 pounds.	In the 5goo-lb modified
class, Ron Poirier from class and the 3/4 ton class Alcove drove "Touch of were cancelled due to the Class II" the full distance rain and bad track of 250 feet in the pull-off conditions.
r
/



I
V

r

'


#

!
& »

!

I
x -	- *53


K,«
t«A

w^m


V
-photo Dave Moore
Keith Sloan goes to check out his truck after his run at the pull off in the 5800-lbs The 6200-lb modified class. The truck started steaming up at the end of his run but it was nothing sen-
ouss - just a radiator cap forced off.
Shawville Fair Truck Pull Results:
Mini Class: 1) Jacques Belly, Aylmer; 2) Art Villeneuve, Ladysmith;
3)	Darcy Mitchell, Chapeau.
1/2 Ton Class: 1) Mel Langton, Beachburg; 2) Ron Dick, Shawville; 3) Pete Tremblay, Cheneau;
4)	Gille Labelle, Lac St Marie ;
Vaillencourt, Shawville; 6) Bill Hobbs, Renfrew; 7) Steve Hobbs, Shawville.
5500-lb Modified Class: 1) Ron Poirier, Alcove; 2) Keith Sloan, Mansfield; 3) Gary Tubman, Shawville; 4) Tom Orr, Shawville; 5) Neil Woodman, Shawville; 6) Gary Burns, Cantley; 7) Dan Langton, Wakefield; 8) Bob Holmes, Cantley; 9) Aimé Fleury, Wakefield; Linda Holmes, 11) Robin Richard, Cantley; 12) Marty Burns, Cantley; 13)
WEST END GAS BAR
TRAILER SALES
GOLDEN FALCON TRAVEL, 5th WHEEL and PARK MODELS -FIBROBEC & FIBRELINE TRUCK CAPS.
Good Used Selection • Awnings, Air and Accessories. EXCELLENT PRICES, IN PARK DELIVERY, SERVICE & SET-UP ROYAL CLASSIC "C" MOTOR HOMES 1344 Pembroke St West

Smash 'em up

/
/
i
â
riïpi'f * 1
v f % # r 1
% jr

(613)
PEMBROKE
1*1

Yvon
5)
et,-
732-8521
%
4
A .

r

7*
^UNfr*

O

Friday, Sept. 17-7:30 p.m. $1000.00 IN PRIZES
; IT.C.R.A. - Ladysmith
X.
- •
SVi

a-A
i*-

» #8 T


<- ew ^
,
photo Merry Rearoon 10)
Car 6666 takes a beating during the demolition derby Cantley; held the final day of the fair. The car doing the beating, 72, appears to have taken some abuse itself. Hundreds of people turned out to watch 43 cars be put to Patsy Burke Holmes, through the paces of the derby.	Cantley; 14) Michel
Charron, Low; 15) Mike Fogarty, Shawville.


/
«B
RW

Harry Dale running his Percheron mare and foal for the Heavy Horse judge.
M r
0
m »
• »
3*
- FAMOUS -
Co niveau running for National Party ticket




GPUPNS
HOTEL

Next pull: Wednesday night Renfrew Fair 7:00 p.m.
3
M
* •*
ml


¦	(Continued from page 3)
¦	admits, "but that's my , strong point. There'll be
no B.S."
Mr Corriveau has only good things to say about his opponents in the upcoming campaign. Whatever corruption exists, he says, it's not their fault. "It's the system that stinks."
Mr Corriveau pledges that, if he were elected, he would only accept a salary sufficient to cover his expenses. The balance would be donated to schools in the riding.
"I’m not going to be another pig at the trough," he swears. "We've got to end that sort of thing."
In spite of the obvious fact that his campaign would be an uphill battle, Mr Corriveau is looking forward to the next election, which he predicts will be called for October 25th.
"It should be interesting," he concludes.
?
CHUGG ELECTRIC
QUHON, QUEBEC
+0+Q+0+0+0 *0+0*
Live Country Music At Its Best!
r ,
\
Commercial • CONTRACTOR • Residential
“For all your electrical and heating needs”


if
Free Estimates 24 Hr. Service


>


i /
/
Call:
647-	5022
648-	2743
Ryan Griffin on the Raiders midway attaction.
Friday, Saturday, Sunday
ENJOY THE COUNTRY SPIRIT!
Pager 1-552-2333
#r

I
KOA KAMPGROUNDS
r
&
| Open May 1 st thru Oct. 15|
<
iff
SPECIALS
OF - THE - WEEK
M
!
/P
Seasonal Sites Available
• GOLF DRIVING RANGE • SPRING FED LAKE • BEACH • STORE and LAUNDROMAT • FULL HOOKUPS AVAILABLE
• BILINGUAL SERVICE
Just off Hwy. 17 at Storyland exit, 1-613-432-6280
ft
Me
0 #
t
\
f
I L L E FOR!

MacGREGOR
Eiyoy
The Equity
every week
SUBSCRIBE
m
m
CONCRETE PRODUCTS LIMITED
O
• BNQ APPROVED SEPTIC & HOLDING TANKS
•	Dry Well Chambers (perforated)'^-1'' • BNQ Weeping Pipe 4 Fittings
vdHIHIf ÆI ' Steps & Railings
•	Well Tile 4 Well Chambers
5 • Patio Stones 4 Curbs
•	Septic Tank Pumping
• Cement Blocks • Masonry Supplies
•	Footings • Foundations • Curbs
• Driveways • Sidewalks
READY-MIXED CONCRETE
ANY Quantity ¦ ANY Mix • Design YOU Require
O
1993 FORD Ft 50
Jenny Runtz, Stacey Lattery and Allison Sandrelli wait to go into the show ring.
0
6 cyl., automatic, air, cruise, tilt, am/fm cassette, two-tone paint, 12,000 km

OPEN
MONDAY to FRIDAY 8 a m. to 6 p.m. SATURDAY 8 a.m. to 4 p.m.
r (brnKbaLL'i
>'
M 6,995
*
V
c>* X>; <o •
WE l DING/^SE HVICE
A*
LARIS* SNOWMOBILES &A.T.V.
s
SH AW VILLE FORD
i
>
Sales - Service - Reniais

Associated with Polaris for 27 years
819-647-5581

R.R. W, Quyon, Que.
X

X
A*

DROP BY AND SEE THE 1994 MODELS



4r>.
Ism
Cl-XSNt

N*sr#5
14 ».
X
hut Stiwm Km Sh«.m SKS^ 0^

1992 AEROSTAR
1
H 1994
“NEW”
•19**

•RADIO EQUIPPED TRUCKS'
i
Air, cruise, tilt, am/fm cassette, 59,000 km
023
*14,995
kw
• Rebar, Wire and Fibre Mesh Floors
• Floor finishing
Saturday Deliveries
/QUALITY*
Mm
Shawville Ford Inc.
Your Ford - Mercury dealer Hwy. 148. Shawville. 647-2721 or 2722
Good selection of previously owned sleds.
1-800-267-0118	(613) 582-3459
(Day or Evening)
. A style with real class
• •
(Plant, Toll Free)
Run With The Best. Run With An Indy.
BEACHBURG, ONTARIO
\
\
\
###PAGE###8###

Page 8, THE EQUITY, Wednesday, September 8,1993
Advertising Deadline Mondays p.m.
Call (819) 647-2204 or Fax (819) 647-2206
The Equity
CLASSIFIEDS
THANKS
MISCELLANEOUS FOR SALE OB RENT RESTATE - PUBLIC NOTICE,
¦is B1 is ü
Wednesday through Saturday. Bristol Mine Road ¦ Apartment ty cleared Phone 648-5733. Litchfield Municipal trench dump:	in me of
sse e@h lae IBs s™ HE Ss ss*
~ es m ir* n m
BiBSBftPE
" ms IBS sms sas sS» E- SEE
•HFSsE	HSSsHs a=.=® ESSr5 a£S£=	safes»
si éüz: ma mds ess.
John Telford's cottage, Leslie MISCELLANEOUS	At lowest prices, you renovate,	13 miles from Shawville on right, ton, Quebec, lor more information	vvherp two or more candidates	sièges 1.4, et 5.	r J
Lake. Please bring your own lawn - come in and save up to 50%. Vinyl	$300.00 per month, Joe Hamilton Rhone 613-834-9434. X4S8	Lvivninated (or the same office	2. Toute déclaration de Candida-	aiArl
“** sm ms is= » me ms;“
sonic, RCA, inglis, Jenn-Air. Call ,.59, steel door: 44.95, with zens 458-2993. O.M.H. de Ponti- 683-2131. 4BS8	^You£nSc me atthe ad- dide9hà 12hetde 13hà 16h.
us collect at 613432-5318. ole	frame: 74.85. We pay the GST on	ac appartement subventionné pour 50 acres of mixed bush. Has not	le^nithe retMminnnfiicer-RR	A noter que le 15 October 1993, le	Monday, July 5,1993. The
Motors and transmissions sold and	1000$ and more purchasing. Ma-	personnes retraitées, 458-2993. been cut for about 30 years.	, Qhawville 819-647-5517/	bureau sera ouvert de 9:00 à	Secretary Treasurer was
FRIDAY & SATURDAY	installed Also 24 hr towing Auto tériaux Masson 819-986-5720. 8bs29	Marked on 4 sides. Can be seen	'	16:30.	late so meeting was ad-
EE™	EHHB EgE"EF; ^------------------
,*eens»uo,k«,o«o Ksjssssisai	sir90""'	s?
mm&	üü
SsSSE isswaasa	a&aa.,ct =r^™=z ^stssaast
trrœs’v,,	—8iM86mo^	vrk-sss
*¦s~»— - ' sftîsasaaws LrvEST0CK - sa-fflasc	%%%%
^	«	gg a; ms	gs	##
one bedroom completely furnished, 2bs8	Heures: de 9 h à 16 h. Le dernier %RiÜno6ublicnotiM ^ something could be done
luding heat and lights. Apply Plano lessons available, still some jour soil vendredi 1993 Oct 15 le , Th following offices on the
ff.wwtr® siBtfr tra,n is»«^ * sæas
aasssssa” r*.	%%%=%:% EEEEm	7« as ass:»
#E:':	#%
»-«¦ SFv—Sessaas	"
FARM EQUIPMENT	^MES SC
Complete New Holland bale ter 5 pm. otc	3914 or 1-613-834-1124. D.M.	from 9:00 to 19:00 and an advance	with Marlene Feather-
thrower fits most models, phone shawville - One bedroom apart- Major, CMA. bs8	,e Président^âlection.	EMJIjf JSiJS: 1993/10,31	?tone ®bo.ut her S0*? ?n
Sr53BS -mmen :______________||S«	:
2376 evenings 3bs8	2604 after 5 pm. otc	Earn extra cash with Watkins, Municipalité de Clarendon	5 You can contact me at the ad-	read a,nd d'scussed:
SFiF”	SSSSSSSSSSS	rss	SSs
sssMBre- sawssa- œ-aa-ss
«N 2.»„ «rnw. Reliant fjSTl ÆÏÏS SK PUBLIC NOTICE] 2K? « “j	fv, . r.-
AM-FM radio, power brakes, pow- furnished apart for rent. 647-	. J M ^	2. Toute déclaration de Candida- nqfl w	sume of work done by a
er steering, automatic stick shift, 5554. otc oad, Phone 647-	Ms Notice	ture à l'un ou l'autre des postes
bucket seats, excellent condition, 2508 2XS1	Municipalité de Jtchfield	ouverts devra être produite au
new brakes, new tires. 123 km -	*	... _	Aux contribuables de la susdite bureau du présidente d'élection
hiqhway driven, $3,500. (819) Shawville • 2 bedroom apanmen,	municipalité :	aux jours et aux heures suivants:
647-5676 bs!5	frid9e and stove, electric heat,	Avis public est par les présentés	jours: du 1993/09/10 au 1993/	No Hunting or trespassing on Lot
...	. . . private parking 647-2924. Be	donné par le soussigné, secrô-	10/15, du mardi au vendredi.	3 Range 5 Bristol, Quebec.	. A ,, .. . . .
1983 Oldsmobite, good winter car. tween 9-4 weekdays. OTC	taire-trésoriôre de la susdite mu-	Heures: de 9 h à 12 h et de 13 h à	Grandchildren walking through the	registered letter be sent to
ns »,“¦"*•' s-gis-j-sas	sesw«.w	;%%%. -	^	^	rjaasa's
anolianrps included Available Oc- nouvelles heures pour le dépotoir candidature à un même poste, un	work requested by M Mer-
lober 1st 647-3898 or 647- en tranchée dans la municipalité de scrutin sera tenu le: 1993/11/07	THANKS	cier, seconded by Clifford
5254 OTC	Litchfield:	de 9h à 19 h. et un vote par antià   -" Monette. Charmaine Hoo-
s*..» • ». w a». VA? * BS" l*: '®3' ' SSASSSRS *8"n,t p““d °" °1-
ment furnished, heat, lights and samedi et dimanche IlOOhresà 4. J'ai nommé pour agir à titre de for helping us celebrate our 40th parking, $350 per month. Phone tg oôhres.	secrétaire d'élection: Ruth Potter wedding anniversary, for all the
647-2508. 2XS15	Veuillez aussi noter que les bar- Strutt.	cards and
1993
OCTOBER
1993
SEPTEMBER
S M T W T F S
- - - 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 -	-

S M 1 w T f
1 2
3 4 5 6 7 8 9
1011 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30
31
COMING EVENTS
litho
Caro
last,
otc
Joanne,
XS8
1
A regular sitting of Council was scheduled for
GARAGE & YARD SALES
Those present were: Mayor Joe Peck, Councillors Birtle Peck, Clifford Monette, and Charmaine
r antici-12 h à
age
20h
am. XS8
4.	J'ai nommé pour agir à titre de	,
secrétaire d'élection: Mme Con- Hooley forming a quor-stance St Pierre.	um. Visitors, Secretary
5.	Vous pouvez me rejoindre en Treasurer, Nina Milford communiquant au bureau du prési- and Giselle Jolicoeur to dent d'élection: 770 rue Central open bids for sand and tar ou 838 rue Covey Bryson 819- the 8eCond coat on 1 km of 648-5940 oui 648-5624 Donné à Harrison Road already
. Bryson ce 6 .ème septembre, done and 1/2 km further
on Harrison Road and 1/2 km on Cawood Road.
Charmaine Hooley moved that minutes be ac-
1993
Jean-Guy Lalemand le Président d'élection
OS8
2xs8
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 11 - Hlde-a-bed sofa, green, $100, Bryson, Yard Sale, 790 Principale couch and chair $10q. Apartment Street for 3 weekends starting sjze washer $75	547.5730 af-
September 4th, weather permit- ter 5 pnli 2bs8 ting. 4bs22
FARM PRODUCE
about the speed and noise of the trucks drawing
inc
f"
ïmSSîflEÏ)
&r
calls. 2XS15
X

v^r
...Can Sell It!
she did. David Early mentioned the culvert at Swain Lake. Allen Peck
m
W
m
m




X

:
M
CARS & TRUCKS
u
c
ratepayer, which he claims was illegal. M Mercer has sent him two letters.
Birtle Peck moved that a
NOTICE
WEEKLY RATES
Minimum charge of 15 words or less $8.00. Additional weeks $6.00 each. Additional words are 10c each. For box reply, add $2.00 per week. Legal notices, public notices, tenders are 45c per agate line. Display classified 55c per agate line.
DEADLINE IS 5:00 P.M. MONDAY Please note: All advertisements which are phoned in to The Equity will be given our careful attention but we cannot guarantee the content or spelling unless they are provided to us in legible writing or typed. No reprinting or rebates can be considered for mistakes in ads which are phoned in to us.
6:00
WANTED TO BUY
Best prices paid for old furniture, toys, wicker dolls, old pine cupboards, calendars, etc. Don't throw anything old out. Call Lillian 647-5304. otc
Wanted - Old Furniture, magazines, toys, comics, hockey cards. Anything. Miscellaneous. Call Fred Desabrais 458-2268. OTC
300,000 feet of small red pine logs and pulp 613-582-3670 alter 800 p.m. 4 s 15
vision.
Clifford Monette moved
gilts. A special thank that bills be approved and rières au dépotoir seront fermées, 5. vous pouvez me rejoindre en you to ou family, especially Ma- Pai<J. seconded Oirtie à l'exception des heures ci-haut communiquant au bueau Aj prési- donna for organizing It and lo Fa- Peck. mentionnées.	dente d'élection: Rte 148 (CP ther Ethier for the special mass, Tenders for snowplow-
Donné à Campbell's Bay ce vingt- 777), Shawville 819-647-3862 the choir, dinner at Bryson, party ing and sanding 13.53 km cinquième jour de août mil neuf Donné à Clarendon le 3 septembre, later al Bertrand's Hotel in of Ca wood Road on next
Campbell's Bay, the band and the agenda, midnight lunch. Everything was Joseph Squitti to send for greatly appreciated. Frank and	,
Estate XS8	(Continued on page 9)
REAL ESTATE FOR SALE
PHONE 647-2204
EHEfE- §pE‘
1993
Loma Younge
le Présidente d'élection
Fax: 647-2206 P.O. Box 4300, Shawville, Quebec, JOX 2Y0
osa
I
i
###PAGE###9###

THE EQUITY, Wednesday, September 8,1993, Page 9
Firefighters learn from
each other's experiences through
Pontiac Fire Chiefs' Association
Volunteers needed
for Terry Fox Run
Feds float boat by-pass
by Richard Wills The maiden season for the boat by-pass at Rapides des Joachims has been a successful one. Since the system convey boats I around the hydroelectri- I cal dam at des Joachims | opened in June of this year, over 250 boats have been put through.
The heavy traffic through the by-pass confirms the preliminary studies showing that the system was something boaters wanted, said No-reen Loos, director of operations for the Corporation Passe des Rapides.
Ms Loos was one of a handful of individuals involved in the project who were on hand at the MRC building in Litchfield September 1st to meet Pontiac-Gatineau-Labelle
MP Barry Moore.
Mr Moore had arrived to announce that the by-pass corporation will be receiving $156,559 from the federal government's Community Initiatives fund. salaries under the Chal- is "a very important ob-0f this amount, $64,282 lenge program.	stade (to boating).”
will offset capital cost The trucks for towing A by-pass at this spot, he overruns; $51,322 will pay the boats are paid for by the points out "will bring Lac salaries for the first year; Quebec government's Of- Deschenes and Chats Loos the remaining $40,955 fee of Planning and De- Lake together will pay the second-year velopment salaries


? 0
by Merry Reardon its part.
by Merry Reardon the recently formed or- number of departments at Only you can help keep The 10-kilometre round-The formation of the ganization was to be rec- the same time.	Terry Fox's dream alive, trip course starts and fin-
Pontiac Fire Chiefs' Asso- ognized by the MRC of In addition to buying During the early 1980s, ishes at the Pontiac Probation has provided local Pontiac.	equipment together, the Terry's Marathon of Hope testant High School,
fire departments with a	"We re not politically departments can also inspired the nation to give People don t have to run
new vehicle for education	bound in any way, but we	learn from one another	more of themselves and	the course, they are wel-
and information.	couldn't do much without	through a concept called	ask for less in return‘	come to walk, bike or use
The organization was	political backing," Chief	inter-fire department	A decade later, his lega	any other means of corn-
formed with the intention	Black said.	training.	cy lives on with the help of	pleting the route,
of sharing equipment, in-	The membership of the	This is a project where	the annual Terry Fox Run	Although 99 per cent	of
formation, training pro-	PFCA includes the 16 fire	two firefighters from one	held in 34 countries	the participants complete
grams and purchasing	chiefs from the Pontiac as	station go to another de-	around the world.	the full course, Mr Petty
well as representatives	partment to learn about a	Last year, more than	said people can stop when-
Bill Black, county chief from the police and ambu- specific area of expertise. 500,000 people participated ever they like, of the Pontiac Fire Chiefs' lance.	"There's a lot of brain in the annual run at more In addition to partici-
Association (PFCA), ex-	Chief Black, who is also	power in one place, " Chief	than 3,000 run sites across	pants, organizers are also
plained the idea behind	the fire chief of the Shaw-	Black said. "The fire-	Canada.	looking to recruit volun-
the organization is not to ville-Clarendon Fire De- fighters bring back the in- Shawville is one com- teers. set up rules and régula-	partment, hopes the or-	formation and adapt it to	mun'ty that raises money	Volunteers could do	a
tions for the fire chiefs to	ganization will lead to a	suit (their departments). "	each year ^ hosting a	variety of tasks including
take back to their stations	better, more developed	Although the average	Terry Fox Run.	driving a car along the
and enforce.	mutual aid understand-	citizen may not see the	Last year, about $2,000	route to ensure the safety
It s more along the lines	in„ am the fire depart.	immediate benefits of the	was. ra,sed here; and	of the runners, working at
of networking, where the	merits ^ P	PFCA, the members of the	^amzers hope to match	a water station, or helping
fire chiefs sit down, get to	»If Shawville had a	organization already	that flgure aga,n th,s	register entrants.
talk about common issues	trucVor^ mTn "but a ^We have already seen dohn P^ty, one of the lo-	ableafany bank	in	Shaw-
“	csss	Sp**?- £	suaaftar
The first achievement of we wou]d ,et Mother de- relationship, the training goal isn 1	a mone- If participants prefer,
and the companies com- ta£ one- ¦ . .	. they can pay a $5 entry fee
.juu	S5S2	sggS
Regardless of where in our village."	with one another, but the were sharing expenenc- ? *ea„to eep memory	_____________.. . .
Mr Moore said that the they live, the consensus "I'm going to do every- PFCA could help expand cs and ideas.	Particioation at the run «r th»	frnm
In addition to summer	project represents	a con-	among those present at the	thing I can to	help Phase	those agreements.	"Die association has had	over	the	past n	ea	ha vifinntil Inn tL'llfk!
students, eight full-time	siderable economic	devel-	MRC was that Phase II	II," promised	Mr Moore.	Chief Black is striving	sales representatives give	”	"	«rfïïtween10n and	w?l!
employees work at the by- opment potential for Pon- will benefit everyone "Everyone is working to- to develop a system com- demonstrations of equip- 200DM>Dle	Sunday September
sen:	assss
truck and boat trailer to poration, the local agency	only share equipment and	departments attend-
convey boats from one that acts as an intermedi- Alleyn and Cawood Council	possibly manpower, they a course on investi-
ramp to the other, thus by-	ary between the govern-	™	-	also have more access to	gating the causes of fires.
passing a major obstacle	ment and candidates for	R3lGD3V6rS tfiQUCSI	training resources
Community Initiatives	r J	The Shawville
grants.	(Continued from page 8)	ley against.	Clarendon department	for when investigating a
The des Joachims svs- The federal money, he	The question why a per- has had about 15 training fire scene, what to expect,
tern is one of three such by-	says, "is what made the	more keys for the dump.	son from outside the vil-	tapes made available	how to preserve the scene
passes that make up Phase	thing go.	Allen Peck gave his re- lage was hired when	there	through other depart-	and how to conduct an in-
I of the total river project. "These funds are not sume for the work being are some qualified per- ments, that it otherwise vestigation with expertise The other two are at Mat- easy to come by," he add- done °n the roads
tawa and Temisca- ed.	,	Raymond Milford will work. The Mayor said he The purchasing power of Chief Black said it is
mingue.	PhaseII	be resigning from gar- made the decision as the the fire departments has important to determine the
Of the three, says Ms	Some of the people	bage pick-up.	work had to be done right	increased with the devel-	cause of a fire, to protect
Loos, des Joachims "is the	present at the MRC were	Poster for tenders will be	away.	opment of the association,	the safety of those in the
big one right now."	also interested in Phase II	put up.	Law	102	concerning	Chief	Black	said	the	community.
Phase I opens up 338 ki-	of the river project, which	Dump will be open on working conditions in	the	turn-out	gear some	of the	Despite all of the benefits
lometres of waterway - calls for by-passes to be Wednesday night from 6 public sector was dis-' departments are cur- reaped by the firefighters from the head of Lake Te-	installed at Culbute Rap-	pm until 8 pm.	cussed. Birtle Peck moved	rently using has to be re-	the cost to belong to the
xpiscamingue down to	ids above Chapeau, and at	Birtle Peck resolved that	that a letter be sent to elude	placed with bunker gear.	PFCA is nominal.
Pembroke and Allumettes	the dams at Bryson, Port-	this Council support Bris-	the Municipality	from	To outfit one firefighter	A membership costs $25.
Island - to free boating	age du Fort, and Quyon.	toi, that the municipality	Law 102, seconded by Clif-	in new bunker gear would	When the money collected
traffic.	This would enable boats of Pontiac not join the ford.	cost about $1,000.	runs out and the associa-
To date, the federal gov- to travel all the way from MRC until matters are Adjournment moved by That price would likely tion needs more, the mem-ernment has contributed a	Temiscamingue down to	cleaned up, seconded by	Charmaine Hooley	and	be reduced if the equip-	bership will be asked to put
total of $346,439 to the	Aylmer. It is hoped that	Clifford. Charmaine Hoo-	seconded by Birtle.	ment was bought for a	forth more
Passe des Rapides corpo-	the economic spin-offs
ration. This would in-	from this river traffic
elude $52,000 from Em-	would be a boon to Pontiac,
ployment and Immigra- Jim Stewart of Quyon, a tion s Job Development member of the Pontiac program, $130,000 from Waterway Development Fisheries and Oceans for Corporation, said that the construction of the ramps dam between Quyon and and docks, and $7,800 for Fitroy Harbour, Ontario
1
/
;

power
-photo Richard Wills
MP Barry Moore chats with Noreen Loos at the MRC.
partment use it
19
CCQ
Public Meeting
The course will teach fire fighters what to look
to boat traffic.
Phase I
at 550 RESTAURANT LUSKVILLE, QUEBEC
and discretion
sons here who could do the couldn't afford
September 8th
• 7:00 p.m. EVERYONE WELCOME TO ATTEND THIS
VERY IMPORTANT MEETING
INFORMATION
PRENATAL
INFORMATION
SESSIONS

Pbntoc

money
BUSINESS
DIRECTORY
Service
Future fathers and mothers, please note where and when the next prenatal courses offered by the CISC Pontiac will take place.
FORT-COULONGE: Monday, September 13,1993
at the CISC In Fort-Coulonge (courses In French)
Wednesday, September 15,1993 at the CISC In Bryson (courses In English)
Monday, September 13,1993 at the CISC In Chapeau (courses In English)
To register, you may contact the following CISC: FORT-COULONGE BRYSON:
CHAPEAU:
There's absolutely no charge!! the manag ement
FRANCOIS E. LACOURSE PHILIPPE J. LACOURSE
BOUDREAU - NADON NOTARIES
LORNE GREEN
FARRIER
CORRECTIVE SHOEING AND TRIMMING
SHAWVILLE, QUE., JOX 2Y0 819-647-3926 OR 819-647-3893

PONTIAC ELECTRIC INC.
ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR ENTREPRENEUR ELECTRICIEN RESIDENTIAL - COMMERCIAL ¦ FARM
BRYSON
PO BOX 669. VICTORIA AVENUE
SHAWVILLE, QUE. 647-2772
WEDNESDAYS AFTER 6 P M.
BY APPOINTMENT ONLY
HULL 770-7666
Terry Fox's dream is still alive
P O BOX 69 SHAWVILLE. QUE.. JOX 2Y0 819-647 2417 - 819 647 2416
FORT WILLIAM. QUE.
819 689-2498
CHAPEAU
FAX 819-647-2460
INSURANCE! Septic Tank Pumping
FIRE
AUTO
THEFT
•	K.H BOX, B A .C.A.
•	SJ. DREGAS, CA.
•	J.A. MACKILLICAN, B COM . C A
•	B.D. THOMPSON. CA
PHONE (613)432 3665 OR 432-2104
MACKDLLICAN & ASSOCIATES
CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 252 RAGLAN STREET SOUTH RENFREW. ONTARIO, K7V 4A6
633-3000
648-2193
689-5080
SINCE 1929'
GORDON PAUL INSURANCE LTD.
137 CENTRE STREET SHAWVILLE, PHONE 647 2626 or 647 3339
4
O
VALLEY MUTUAL GENERAL INSURANCE
FARM - AUTO - HOME - COMMERCIAL ##
PHONE SHAWVILLE: 647 2953 OR 647 2869	1HSIS
ihiii
PROMUTUEL THE POLICY HOLDER
by Merry Reardon lights of escort vehicles, is Terry Fox had a dream, one that is familiar to He wanted to raise the many people world wide, awareness of the critical Terry specifically reneed to find a cure for quested that money raised
in his name be used for
Septic Tank Pumping Sales and Service
Ç9MURD0CK
HWY. 148. SHAWVILLE. QUE
JH
MacGREGOR
Concrete Products Limited 1-800-267-0118(613) 582-3459 Beachburg, Ontario
Thank You
WALTHAM 683-3126	CALUMET ISLAND 648 2456
MUTUAL OWNED AND CONTROLLED BY YOU
GLASS, MIRRORS, WINDOWS & DOORS GLASS & SCREEN REPAIRS
QUYON, 458-2430
cancer
He also wanted to make innovative the pain go away When Terry was 18, his wouldn't necessarily be right leg was amputated funded by the National six inches above the knee as a result of bone cancer.
It was at this time, and Aller the 1992 Terry Fox in the months of treatment Run, more than $100 mil-that followed, that Terry lion had been raiged for
saw the suffering of can- cancer research.
cer patients.	Last year, more than
He wanted to help put an 500 000 Canadians partie-end to the pain and suffer- ipated in the x Fox
mg and decided to run Run he]d at more th
across Canada to raise
money for cancer re
».opf.rnp.Urti*i'p«J,C
hurting must stop ... and I ^qq qqq am determined to take myself to the limit for this
To all the buyers who purchased 4-H steers at the Shawville Fair held Friday, September 3,1993.
cancer research, research that
H I. HOBBS AND SONS LTD. .
SHAWVILLE, PHONE 647-2814

SIIVH GAIN FEED * SEED DOG * CAT FOOD COLOURED AND PLAIN GALVANIZED ROOFING WIRE FENCING AND GATES
CONNELLY, KOSHY & FROUIN
CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS
M 4 R Livestock......
Shawville Lions Club....
Dr. Grant Rogers.....
H.I. Hobbs............
Pontiac Business Assoc
Jack McLaren..........
Murray's Auto 6 Sports Dr. MacLellan 4 Dr. McNeely Shawville Dr. R. Chretien 4
Dr. Marc Chretien....
Shawville Chrysler.....
Burnett Farm Equipment Bromely Farm Equipment
M 4 R Feeds............
Leo's Livestock........
Bill's Pizza...........
Mr. Gordon Dittburner..
Pakenham, Ont
Shawville
Shawville
Shawville
Pontiac
Cancer Institute of Cana
P O BOX 761
CORNER VICTORIA AND KING SIIAWVOXE, QUE 647 3867 SHAWVILLE OFFICE WEDNESDAY FROM 10 A M TO 6 P M
608-1680 MERIVALE RD OTTAWA. ONT. K2G 4U5 TEL 224-0212
da
DISHAK
SATELLITE SYSTEMS SALES & SERVICE
VCR S - TVS - MICROWAVES - STEREO S
30 VICTORIA ST.. SHAWVILLE. QUE .JOX 2YD
(819) 647-5121
DANIEL TREMBLAY
DEAD STOCK SERVICE EDMOND MAINVILLE
WELL-DRILLING INC.
RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL
• FREE ESTIMATES • COMPETITIVE PRICES R R •!. CHAPEAU. QUEBEC. J0X 1 MO
______819-689-2215____
LLOYD HODGINS FURNITURE LTD.
378 MAIN ST. SHAWVILLE. QUEBEC. J0X 2Y0
CARPET AND UPHOLSTERY CLEANING SCOTCH GUARDING VHS CAMCORDER FOR RENT AGENT FOR YOLKOWSKI MONUMENTS LTD
647-3841
REMOVAL OP DEAD AND DISABLED FARM ANIMALS SERVICE IN PONTIAC AND RENFREW COUNTIES 24 HOURS • 7 DAYS A WEEK CALVES UNDER 300 LBS. FREE
Cobden, Ont Shawville
CALL PEMBROKE 1-613-735-6950
AMYOTTKINSURANCE
RAYMOND ROWAT NOTARY
3,000 sites across the coun
GENERAL INSURANCE BROKER
CAMPBELLS BAY
648-2114
try
Campbell's Bay Shawville Renfrew, Ont. Douglas, Ont. Quyon Greely, Ont. Shawville Shawville
380 MAIN ST . SHAWVILLE P O BOX 189
TEL: 647-2975
raising almost
FORTIN & LEGAULT
Me JEAN-PEERRE PIGEON
NOTAIRE - NOTARY
CAMPBELLS BAY FORT-COULONGE
QUÉBEC (SI 9) 683-3434
Terry's Marathon of cause.	Hope ended September 1,
Six months later, he 1980 when he was forced to dipped his artifical foot in stop running outside of the Atlantic Ocean and the Thunder Bay, Ontario. Marathon of Hope began. The cancer had spread to Terry embarked on a his lungs, journey that would take He died June 28,1981, but him through six provinc- n<>t before he captured the es, running an average of hearts and admiration of 26 miles each day for 143 the entire nation, days.	Terry Fox's marathon
The image of Terry, fol- may have ended, but his lowed by the flashing dream lives on.
QUEBEC LAND SURVEYORS ARPENTEURS GÉOMÈTRES
FRONT ST , CAMPBELL'S BAY
(819) 648-2066
CONSTANT LEGAULT. e g.
PONTIAC PRINTSHOP LTD
819-647-2204
QUALITY PRINTING BUSINESS FORMS LETTERHEAD INVOICES STATEMENTS
D R. SALES EXTERIOR -
SVAT,ONSl asRE-
EAVESTROUC1IINQ. SOFFIT FASCIA GENERAL HOME MAINTENANCE '
DON REYNOLDS 458 2744
PONTIAC PRINTSHOP
HOME OF
THE EQUITY
PRINTING AND OFFICE SUPPLIES
1 S3 CENTRE ST . SHAWVILLE. QUE TO* 647-2204 FAX: 647 2206
A

DENIS COURTE MANCHE, LAWYER
MANOIR MANSFIELD 289(2), RUE PRINCIPALE, ROUTE 148
Special thanks to Revel Stewart and his halpars and to H.I. Hobbs tor providing tha Champion and Reserve Champion banners for tha steer show and to Laird Hamilton for doing tha announcing.
The Steer Committee
TVJj Bob Binder
647-3380
Small Business Bookkeeping forms Design, Brochures, Flyers A Small Iblume Laser Printing
Phone for Free Consultation
BOX 669. MANSFIELD QUEBEC, JOX1 VO
TEL 819-683-3603 FAX: 819-683-3172
BUSINESS DIRECTORY RATES
1 MONTH <4 WKS) 826 60 COL INCH	6 MONTHS (26 WKS) 6186 00 COL. INCH
3 MONTHS H 3 WKS) >76.70 COL INCH	1 YEAR (61 WKS) 8249 90 COL INCII |
t
I
)
\
\
###PAGE###10###
Page 10, THE EQUITY, Wednesday, September 8,1993
Thompson family holds reunion
Graduate
Eileen Label!©
........... 689-2314
ÉSHE EEEEE
baby. High	School	Th()se relatives and	between the Bristol and	was busy with other pupils,
graduates will be given honou relatives who Quyon Thompsons, and then switched hands when
P'aques	attended from Florida,	this had been pointed out	the teacher approached!
Eleven birthday and get	2*M%tr«l enjoyëd'â	jLn towtitlf Tliorth	preëZreT.n evening meal
minZweS: *¦*. si %.?%'%...
appreciation was received	_____ Grandma Louise in years
from Bishop	Windle	gjKB0\	I |HR J	gone by. Although no
expressing gratitude for	mf -IBI I	verbal comparisons were
kindness shown him	4V JNE	made, it seemed clear that
during his tenure as	K* jVK	gBBBBSB	all were satisfied with the
bishop of Pembroke and	WBPj^g^à» I lH	attempt. All that was
expressing the hope that ^^BB	t	'll lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!lllllll missing were the fresh
the same would be shown MBB '	JBi^P^';S vegetables
Bishop Michael O Brien.	;lv jSjflSJ™	\ Richard's model garden,
A letter was received from	fS and our relatives who
Gail Perry thanking the	jBr ^BBBBBB*! J w ÉÊÊ ¦ were unable to be with us.
CWL for loan of coffee
Waltham

r t
Mr Gavin Maloney should be highly acclaimed for saving the life of a doe that had been injured on a highway, as was reported in the September 1st EQUITY, past Sunday Thanks also to all who
him assistance.

I
4
4^


-
Hermonle Sharpe ..... 647-3459
Caldwell
î
Visiting with Tommie this	„
and Mary Smith at afternoon in honour of gave Maryland and attending Muriel Conroy. This was Animals are God s and the Shawville Fair were planned by her son deserve the same love and Dannie and Robert Smith Mervin and wife Darlene care as man. Sorry to say, of Ottawa	and daughter Margaret, that is not always the case.
Congratulations to they had Brenda Smith do Cold weather will soon be Jason Shea who has been the catering and friends with us and how many accepted to Loyalists and relations from near cats and dogs will be College in Belleville, and far gathered to wish dropped off in villages Ontario	her a happy birthday, and towns to fend for
Hubert and Claudette Happy birthday Muriel themselves, more often Horner of Norway Bay and may you enjoy many than not be abused and had a lovely visit with more.	starve unless some kind
their children David and The winners of the draw people take them into their wife Wendy and held at St Edward’s homes. If they are not grandchildren Madison Church on Sunday were wanted, why not give them and Sage in Dartmouth, 1st prize a dry sink went to to other homes or have Nova Scotia over the last Rene and Velma them humanely destroyed
Dumoulin of South by a veterinarian.
Zêta Chassie returned to

The Reverend Elizabeth Joan Bretzlaff, daughter of Carmen and Marion Bretzlaff of Shawville, graduated from the Vancouver School of Theology with her Master of Divinity Degree on May 5th, 1993. Elizabeth was awarded the Daniel McPherson Scholarship for Top Student in the Final Year Class. On May 15th, 1993, Elizabeth was ordained Deacon in the Anglican Church of Canada at the Cathedral Church of St. Michael and All Angels, Kelowna, B C by the Right Reverend David Crawley. Bishop of Kootenay. She is presently serving as Curate of the C athedral year appointment.
'wm ¦.
•• :


• +
M
». K
>
1 -
»,
•s
weekend of August
I was so sorry to read of Mountain, Ontario, 2nd the death of Karen Joy prize $100 went to Betty her home on Friday, Fulford who passed away Anne Ebbs of Norway Bay September 3rd after a two at the age of 39 at the and 3rd prize $100 went to week stay in the Penticton Regional T Slaston of Ottawa. Pembroke Hospital. We Hospital on August 26. She Congratulations.	wish her a speedy
was predeceased by one Visiting with Raeburn recovery, sister Dawna Gay and her Orr over labour day Muriel Le Roy spent the grandparents Mr and Mrs weekend were Jim Young, weekend in Shawville E P Fulford of Shawville Brenda and children, and Bryson and attended and Mr and Mrs Stanley Ryan and Lindsay of the Shawville Fair. Carkner of Kenmore, Sudbury, Ontario and Our Lady of Perpetual Ontario. Survived by her RUeben Orr and wife Help CWL September husband, Bill Wilms and Linda of Barry, Ontario. Meeting was held on her parents Donald and Don Sharpe and wife September 1st with Rev A Joyce Fulford, all of Joanne and daughter Harrington Director and Penticton, BC. To her Stephanie left on Monday eight members in family and friends we morning to return to their attendance and chaired by send out our deepest Lome in Marathon. We President Shirley
Lacroix.
r
f ro m
4.
A
a two

V..*' 1" _ A #»

t u
wl
urns.
The league donated the cost of having the Ceborium recoated and for new altar linen. Father Harrington requested
for Father
"A»k me about eel (directed life inaurance •Universal Lite allows you to direct your own life insurance plan. You can increase or decrease the premium, stop prepayment temporanly, adjust the amount of insurance, or withdraw emergency funds when you need them. To find out more about this flexible life insurance plan call me.'
A

X

3W
é\
mium

i
prayers Shalla's mother who is seriously sick. In his remarks Father stated that when we stop and think of "who we are" and
Û
The Mutual Group
Ml
Facing Tomorrow Together
Agent licensed wtth Mutual Life ot Canada Investco Inc
M.
J.W. (Jack) GRAHAM Bui: 647-3885 Rea: 647-2376
two ol The Mutual Group

r
what we are, we should be	,	_ ,	. A	.
very thankful to God. At the Thompson reunion. Back row left to right.
There are so many things Brenda Hartwick Meagher, Robert Meagher, Tom
to be thankful for, and in Thompson, Patricia Griffiths, Jim Griffiths, Jeremy
spite of problems, which Stewart, Herbert Stewart. Second row: Dorothy Jones,
everyone has, we should Joyce Terry, Gwyneth Thompson, Hazel Stewart, Joan
sard's-» sac fX
followed	with McCracken, Bill Stewart, and Keila Jean Meagher,
refreshments
sympathy. She was the will sure miss them, niece of Audrey Fulford Shawville Fair is over Hodgins and	Douglas and	for another year and	our	prayer, followed by the
Dorothy Fulford of Stark s	next holiday will	be	roll call. Minutes of the
Stella	Thanksgiving. We,	in	June Meeting were read
n.	Canada have a gret deal to	by Laurena Dempsey in
Get well wishes are sent be thankful for. Right now the absence of Susan to Ernie Yach and Gordon we are experiencing fall Ethier,
Alexander who have been weather, which is natural Financial report was
given by Treasurer Mrs
50th Anniversary
The family of
Stewart and Virtue Woods
invite you to join them in celebration at an OPEN HOUSE at the R.A. Centre, Shawville, Quebec Sunday, September 12th, 1993 1:00 to 4:00 pm.
Your presence will be their gift.
Meeting opened with
Corners and , Fulford Curtis of BC
Secretary
and really beautiful.	u
I was so sorry to hear of	Amyotte
Kenny Wilson is home	the fire in the silo at Cyrus
from hospital after	Beck's. Sure hope it
undergoing surgery. His	wasn't too extensive. It is
iSaz	S£s SHIS
for the Shawville Fair was past weekend were her Keith Mac Lei land on time, a new l Tom Sharpe of daughter Bonnie Topp's birthday September granddaughter Brittany Peterborough.	Goodman	and	2nd. They also spent a	Leigh Thoms.
Home after spending a	granddaughter Sarah of	couple of days in	Visiting with Lorn and
week in Toronto is	Vancouver. Sarah will be	Brockville and enjoyed	Bernice Hodgins at their	Peari	Little	and	Grace	Shirley of	Constance	Bay
Marjorie Corrigan of	attending Carleton	the boat cruise on the 1000	cottage this weekend were	Cavers	of Ottawa,	Marion	and	her two sons, Steve
Shawville	University in Ottawa this	Islands.	Doreen and Phil Jean-	Hobbs	from	Shawville,	and	Ann	Stewart	and
The dump which they year.	It has been very bad Marie. Deb, Brian and Rodney of Arnprior, Jennie from Arnprior.
are tyring to have at the Attending Algonquin weather for the farmers Brian Russett Jr for
Bristol Mine Site sure has	College in Ottawa are	who are finishing their	dinner Saturday evening	-AUIAT	ILIOI I n A Mf*r-
caused a great deal of	Kim Wiggins and Janet	haying and harvesting, so	and Mabel and Myrland I	ROWAT	INbUnANvfc
controversy. The Bristol Sharpe.	wet.	Sparling from Broc vi e I	riàl AAIAIAI OCD\/IPCO
people are not asleep by Visitors with Evelyn Nice to have archdeacon for dinner on Sunday I AND FINANCIAL bcHVIVCO
any means and are quite	Murphy over this past	Ken Bolton and son Rev	Lorn and Bernice visited
aware when someone is	weekend were Curtis and	David Bolton at the 150th	with Norval and I, Lorn s
trying to pull the wool over	Shelly Bulman and son	Anniversary Service at St	mother and grandmother
our eyes.	Braden and daughter	Paul's in Shawville.	who has been very ill and
Who wants refuse from	Rachel of Cobden, Helen	Archdeacon Ken Bolton	Deb and Brian Russett
was the Rector at	and boys in North
on the sick list.
I was so glad to hear that
1
r
THORNE
EMERGENCY NUMBERS
.................(Day) 819-647-3206
..............(Evening) 819-647-2328
1-800-567-1280 ...819-647-2211 ...819-648-2141 j
Cora McNeill .. 647-2191
Charteris
FIRE
FIRE
QUEBEC AMBULANCE
HOSPITAL.........
POLICE...........

SALE

L
Month of Sept.
DOLAN'S
FABRIC SHOP
20°* OFF All Fabrics
QUYON STORE ONLY!
SERVING THE PONTIAC SINCE 1954
458-2673
6
5
3
4
2
Year
1
6.625
6.375
5.625
6.000
5.300
*	G.I.C
*	R.R.S.P. 4.250 5.300 5.625 6.000 6.375 6.625
*	INSURED DEPOSITS * RATES SUBJECT TO CHANGE
1000 MINIMUM DEPOSIT 391 Main Street, Shawville, Quebec 647-5701
4.250
other parts of Quebec and Ken McKay of Owen
dumped on our door step. Sound, Barry and Shirley Charteris in the 1940 s Onslow Not our Mayor or Council, Findlay and Terrence of and in Shawville later. Visitors with Gerald nore any of us who are	Luskvillle, David	and	Frank and	Ivy Bell and	and	Marion	Kelley	on
conscientious about our	Susan	Findlay	of	David and	Darby	from	Saturday	were his	sisters
environment. It will be a Gloucester, John and Jane Oshawa spent the long fight to the finish and I am Murphy and children weekend at their cottage sure our government Ryan and Jenna of Congratulations realizes that when the Munster Hamlet.	David Bell on his singing
people are against any	At his	summer home	performance	at the	CNt
such project that they will	here at	Caldwell	was	in Toronto-
act accordingly to the wish Eu	Soubliere of
of the people. How many years has this been going
1
ROUND-UP RALLY
to
Worship With U
c
s
orne
Shawville Wesleyan Church
9:45 a.m. Sunday School Promotion 11:00 a.m. Rally Day Worship Service 12:00 noon Round-up Refreshments
7:00 p.m. Movle.“Dravecky: A story of Grace and Courage.” Lots of prizes and giveaways throughout the day.
COME AND BRING A FRIEND!
Wolf Lota: St Franc*
Presbyterian
Rev Gordon H Fresque 683-2608 Bristol Memorial
Worship & Sunday School 9 30 a m Fort Coukmge St Andrews Worship Service	___
Anglican
Par ah of Campbei'a Bay Rav Salty Gadd 648 - 2948 St James Otter Lake St George Campbell's Bay 10 30 am St George fortage du Fort 12 00 noon Parish of Clarendon
5:00 p.m
111:115 a m
Mass Saturday Mass Sunday
9:00 am
weekend were her son
Standard
Ottawa
Visiting with Lou Ken and wife Susan and on now and can they not Hannaberry this past children of Ottawa, take no for an answer. It
is not a weak no but one that is loud and clear.
Visiting with us on Friday nights was Mary Recent visitors with Belanger on the weekend. Smith of Maryland.	Marion McTiernan were Jim and Becy Stewart of
Scott Sharpe, son of Carolyn, Denis and Edmonton visited with his Donald and Joanne Crystal Lacompte of parents, Nellis and Sharpe of Marathon will Greenwood, Nova Scotia. Norma Stewart on the be attending school this They have been wekend. It was nice to see year in Welland, Ontario transferred from Moose him and his wife after the where he will be playing Jaw, Sask to Greenwood, gruelling winter they hockey for the Welland also daughter, Margaret, faced with health
Dino and boys of Ottawa. problems. Paul, Cheryl, Congratulations to Elsie Lindsay and Virginia Saturday were Craig and Murphy Letts who was a Palango of Toronto Connie Robinson of Deep winner at Cohen Fair last visited with them as well. River, Ontario.	week. She won two tickets Waverly and Jay
I had a call from my son to Toronto from Pern Air Moorehead, Bob and Lois Sharpe from and $200 cash.	and Lori Smith returned
Get well wishes to Dan from a holiday to the west
11 30 a.m
Rev O MacPhereon 647-2535
10:00a.m 11:00a.m 7:30 p.m
30 pm
Roman Catholic
Brtatoi Mines St Edward Rev Peter G Proulx 647-6562 Masa Saturday Mas Sunday
Junior Church Morning Worship Evening Worship
Saturday Serves
St George Thome Centre 7:00 pm Sunday Services Holy Tnnty. Radford St Raul Shawville St Matthew Charter*
Iris Smith 648-5821
Prayer & Bible Study
United
Bristol Charge Rev Ann Durant Church Office 647-3650
St Andrew VKnax Bristol Bible Study Thursday Ybuth Group Friday
7:30 p.m 9:00a.m 11:00a.m
Campbell s Bay
9 30 am 11:00 am 7:00 pm
&
Bryson Immaculate Conception For Information 453-7656 Mass Saturday	7:00 p.m
Mass Sunday	9:00a.m
&	11:00am.
Campbei'a Bay: St John the Evangelwt Rev Father McElhgott 648-5698 Maas Saturday Mass Sunday
Parwh of Quyon For information 647-2475 St Thomas Bristol	9 00 am
Sit Luke Eardtey	10 30 am
St John Quyon Closed for Summer
9:30 am 11:00 am 2:00 pm 7:00 pm
Hobbs and Hetherington
Friends, relatives and neighbours of Alma and Mel are cordially invited to celebrate with them at their
Wedding Reception
Friday, September 17th, 1993 9 p.m. at the Lions Hall, Quyon, Que.
No gifts please - Best Wishes Only
Associated Gospel
Mr Land Harm Ion 647-3542 Meeting at the PPHS
7:15 p.m 8 30 a m 11 00a m
Rev Angus MacDonald
&
10 30 am
Quyon Charge Sandy Scott 456-2212
0:30 am 11:00 am
Morning Wxship
Sunday Service A Sunday School Mid-week programs tor an ages
10:00 a.m
Calumet I stand Ste Anne Rev Marc L . Gauthier 648-2122
7:30 p.m 9:00am 11:00a.m
Rev
Wesley United Quyon Unied
Maes Saturday an français Maas Sunday English & an français
Baptist
Flames.
Visiting with us on
Rev Jwn Payton Church Ofhoe 647-2764
For Information 453-7668 Sunday Service Sunday School
Church of Faith,
11:00 am 10:00 am
Rev Harrington 669-5232
Sunday School Morning Worship
10:45 am 11:00 wn
7:00 p.m 10; 30 am
Maw Saturday Maw Sunday
Fori Cou longe St Pierre Rev Douglas N Bridge 683-2056
10h00 Dimanche
United Pentecostal
Campbell a Bey
Pastors Rheel 6 Sharon Riw* 648-2929
Sunday Service Bible Study Wednesday Prayer Meeting Saturday
Rev L H Belwd 647-2884
Sunday School 6 Morning Worship
8h30
Davidson
StPWrel
10 :00 a m
10h30
19h00
Luekvilte St Domnque Rev V Robrta.Be
Peter
Kamloops and he tells me they are just experiencing Gravelle of Gatineau who coast. They visited family
weather had a heart attack last there.
week
2 00 p m 7 30 p.m 7 00 p m
Free Methodist
Campbei'a Bay Pastor John Foley
tuyere w announced
Wesleyan
9 30 a m IlhOO
Maw Engkah
Mr. and Mrs. Gilbert Collins
some summer now.
9 45 a m 11:00 am 7.00 p.m
Sunday School Mommg Worship
Visiting with us on the A1 Cockerel, Les Shawville Fair was the weekend were Stacey Atkinson, Gino Telford, great attraction this Smith of Kemptville, Arthur Dean and Mr weekend. Good crowds Sally Jones of Elgin, Cockerell (Al's father) were in attendance and Ontario, Gloria and Joe have been on a fishing trip for most part the weather Fauchert of Sudbury, to Farm Lake for four was cooperative but we Ontario.
now know fall is here
Supper guests with The weather is cooler attended the races at Clarence and Carol and the children are back Oswego, New York. It has Tolman were John and at school.	become an annual trip for
Dale Barr and Steve Visiting with Etta many.
Forbes of Norway Bay. Lunam was her cousin, Entertainment at St A lovely 75th birthday Mary Pitt of Ottawa.	Josephs Manor on
celebration was held in Ian and Chad Belanger Wednesday was by Anna the basement of St visited their parents Crawford, Anna Brown Edward s Church, Bristol, Elmer and Maureen and Iris Smith.
9 00 a m 10 15 am
Sunday Worship Sunday School
Rev Pat let 453-7866
and
7:00 pm 12:00 noon
Ma* Saturday
Home Stole Study Groupe
Prayer & Bible Study
Sunday
(Language alternates
8:00pm
7:00 p.m
Mr. and Mrs. Wayne Hart cordially invite you to the
Wedding Reception in honour of Carrie-Anne and Sean at 8:00 p.m. September II, 1993 Luskvilie Community Center Luskvillc, Quebec
Tuesday
weekly)
Ibuth Group
du Fort: St Jam*
Portage
RevM
Lutheran
r
a 00 p m
Thursday
Ethw 847-3679
iLadyemith Rev Carl Kappeel ¦Zon and St John
7:00 p.m 11:00am
647-6849
4L
Me* Sunday
Quyon 9te Mary Rev Garry Cain 456-2163 Ma* Saturday EngUeh Ma* Sunday English
between Church* 9 30 4 11a m
Pentecostal
Bristol Ridge
Pastor Garry Hobbs 847-2335 Sunday School	10 00 a m
Morning Worship	1100a.m
7:30 p.m 11:00 am
days
Many people from town
/

647^6662
I
4 00pm
G Proulx
Rev
&
July 2 941 ¦ Saturday
S 0
Rev M Ether 647-3679
9 46a.m
11:00a m 7:00pm 7:30 pm
School
w 00 a m
Sunday'
Pm* 4
Our Lady of ?‘•roatoel Help T Harrington 689-5232
7:00 p.m. 9:00 a.m.
Sunday Eventru St Wad Family Night
Saturday
0027193
\
(
f
(
i
I
